---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Creating an account on Azion
description: Basic setups to create an account on Azion using an email address and through Social Login.
meta_tags: edge computing, azion, create account, email, social login, sign up
namespace: documentation_creating_account
permalink: "/documentation/products/accounts/creating-account/"
permalink_pt-br: "/documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/criar-conta/"
---

# Creating an account on Azion

To begin using Azion Edge Platform and all the available [products](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products), you need to complete the sign-up process and log in to the configuration interface, [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).

You can use two methods to create your Azion account: *email* and *Social Login*. The next sections will provide more information on the sign-up process.

> 1. [Creating an account using your email address](#email)
> 2. [Creating an account using Social Login](#social-login)

---

## 1. Creating an account using your email address {#email}

To create an account with your email address, proceed as follows:

1. On the [login page](https://sso.azion.com/login), click *Don't have an account? **Create one now***; a new page will open.
2. On the **Create your Azion account** box, click **Sign up with email**.
3. Fill in the following required fields:
    * **Full name**
    * **E-mail**
    * **Password**

> You automatically agree to the [Customer Agreement Terms of Service]({% tl documentation_agreements_customer_agreement %}) and [Privacy Policy]({% tl documentation_agreements_privacy_policy %}) by proceeding with the registration process.

4. Click the **Sign up with email** button.

To confirm your account creation, you must verify your email. Check your inbox and look for the verification email.
In the message, you'll find instructions to confirm your email address. Click the URL link to activate your account. This link is only valid for *24 hours*.

If you don't receive the email, check your *Spam* folder. The email contains the following headers:

> *From: Azion Technologies - noreply@azion.com*
>
> *Subject: Please Verify Your Azion Account*

If you have any questions, [contact our sales team](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales/).

By clicking on the link sent by email, the [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) page will open. To sign in:

1. Enter your email and click **Proceed**.
2. Enter your password and click the **Sign in** button. 
3. Select an option:
* **I'm a**: **Developer**, **DevOps**, **System Admin**, **Security Analyst**, **Team Lead**, or **Other**.
* **What would you like to build with Azion?**: **Just a personal project**, **Internal project for my company**, **Multiple projects for other companies**, or **Other**.

    >If you select the **Internal project for my company** option, fill in the following fields:
    > * **Company name**
    > * **Company size**
    > * **Company country**

4. Click the **Create my account** button.

You're now able to access **RTM** and start building your **Edge Applications**! Check the [Getting Started]({% tl documentation_getting_started %}) page to continue your onboarding journey.

---

## 2. Creating an account using Social Login {#social-login}

Azion also allows you to create your account through Social Login. Currently, the platform supports **GitHub** and **Google** accounts.

To create an account using a Social Login, proceed as follows:

1. From the [sign up page](https://manager.azion.com/signup), click the Social Login option of your choice:

* **Continue with GitHub**
* **Continue with Google**

2. If requested, enter your username and password according to the chosen *Social Login* option.

   > In some cases, you'll need to complete a few more steps, such as proceeding with authorization options.

3. Select an option:
* **I'm a**: **Developer**, **DevOps**, **System Admin**, **Security Analyst**, **Team Lead**, or **Other**.
* **What would you like to build with Azion?**: **Just a personal project**, **Internal project for my company**, **Multiple projects for other companies**, or **Other**.

    >If you select the **Internal project for my company** option, fill in the following fields:
    > * **Company name**
    > * **Company size**
    > * **Company country**

4. Click the **Create my account** button.

By choosing to create your account via *Social Login*, there's no need to verify your email.

You're now able to access **RTM** and start building your **Edge Applications**! Check the [Getting Started]({% tl documentation_getting_started %}) page to continue your onboarding journey.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
