---
layout: page-documentation-md
title:   Account Deletion
description: The Real-Time Manager allow you to delete your account.
meta_tags: accounts, delete
namespace:     documentation_accounts_delete
permalink:     /documentation/products/accounts/delete/ 
permalink_en:  /documentation/products/accounts/delete/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/delete/
---

# Account Deletion

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/blob/master/accounts/delete-account/2021-05-03-index.md)

**Real-Time Manager** allows you to delete your account. Here are some guidelines on how to do it.

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/);

2. Go to **Client Account** menu on the top right corner, select  **Account info**;

3. Click the **Delete account** button on the bottom of the page;

4. A window will open containing the status of the following items in your account:

   - **DNS Zones:** if you have active DNS, you will need to disable them before proceeding;
   - **Edge Applications:** your applications must be *removed* before closing your account;
   - **Debts:** you must clear any pending debts before completing the procedure.

   > The **Delete account** button will be activated only when the information mentioned above has been resolved.

5. Click on the **Delete account** button.

Done! Your account has been deleted.

After successfully deleting your account you will be redirected to Azion website and you will see the following message: *Your account has been successfully deleted*. 

You will also receive an email confirming the deletion of your account. If you want to give feedback on your experience with Azion, contact us through [this e-mail.](feedback@azion.com)

> Your account information will be stored in case future conferences are needed.. 

**Note:** You can create a *new account* at any time through our website and continue your experience with Azion.

------

Didn’t find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)

