---
title: Azion CLI overview
description: Azion's CLI (command-line interface) is an open source tool that enables the management of services offered by Azion.
meta_tags: CLI
namespace: documentation_CLI_overview
permalink: documentation/products/cli/overview
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/cli/visao-geral
menu_namespace: cli-doc-menu
og_image: ''
meta_tag_robots_no_index: false
---

# Overview 

Azion **Command-Line Interface** (CLI) is an [open source](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-cli/) tool that enables the management of services offered by Azion using a terminal. By using the **CLI**, you can create and manage services such as **Edge Functions** and **Edge Services**, as well as the provisioning of **Flareact** and **Next.js** applications.

Visit the framework's sites at [Flareact](https://flareact.com/) and [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for more information.

**Azion CLI** enables you to:

- Manage Azion products.  
- Create automation using scripts or CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery) pipelines.  
- Provision multiple services that make your application up with few commands.
- Manage your Azion settings as code.

For an overview of the **CLI** commands, you can access its [reference documentation](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-cli/wiki/azioncli).

> Azion CLI is currently in **Beta** version. Some functionalities can be modified until its release. Therefore, use it cautiously in production environments. While you try out the **Beta** version, our engineering team would love to hear from you in order to improve it. Contribute with your [feedback](https://forms.gle/uBBkyXZCVcrgpvAB8).

## About Command-Line Interfaces  

Prior to the development of **Graphical User Interfaces** (GUI), software developers and users interacted with computers using a keyboard and monitor, known as **terminal**.

The keyboard served as the input device, on which the user typed command lines. The computer then ran the command and output the result on the monitor screen, eventually with additional messages.

> Commands typed on the keyboard followed rules that enabled creating an interface between the user and the computer. They were usually composed of a keyword, flags, and parameters. This interface, still used today, is the **Command-Line Interface** or **CLI**.

Later, the GUIs attracted to the computer world users who found typing commands complex and challenging. However, the **CLI** has never lost its importance, especially in the software development environment.

In fact, the **CLI** has many advantages when compared to using graphical interfaces, such as:

- Ability to manipulate computer resources inaccessible by GUIs.  
- Speed and simplicity to perform tasks.  
- Flexibility in creating scripts for process automation.  

All modern operating systems have terminal-type applications in which the user can type command lines to perform tasks on the computer.

---

## Related documentation 

- [First steps]({% tl documentation_CLI_first_steps %})
- [Managing your Edge Functions using Azion CLI]({% tl documentation_how_to_cli_edge_functions %})
- [Creating an edge application using Azion CLI]({% tl documentation_how_to_cli_edge_application %})
- [Running the CLI on macOS Operating System]({% tl documentation_how_to_cli_running_macos %})

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
