---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Users and Teams
description: This document will provide you with information on adding, deleting, or changing information from users and teams on Real-Time Manager(RTM).
meta_tags: Users and Teams
namespace: "documentation_accounts_users_teams"
permalink: "/documentation/products/accounts/users-and-teams/"
permalink_en: "/documentation/products/accounts/users-and-teams/"
permalink_pt-br: "/documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/usuarios-e-times/"
---

# **Users and Teams**

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/blob/master/accounts/users-and-teams/2021-01-14-index.md)

In this documentation, you will find guidance on how to manage users and teams on the Real-Time Manager.

Learn how to add, delete or change account information, as well as set permissions, for example.

Before starting your settings, make sure you have the necessary permissions as per the the following instructions.

> 1. [*Accessing Users and Teams*](#Accessingusersandteams)
> 2. [_Adding users to an account_](#addinguserstoanaccount)
> 3. [_Changing users information_](#changingusersinformation)
> 4. [_Changing your account information_](#changingyouraccountinformation)
> 5. [_Deleting users_](#deleting-users)
> 6. [_Adding teams_](#addingteams)
> 7. [_Modifying team permissions_](#Modifyingteampermissions)
> 8. [_Deleting teams_](#deleting-teams)

***

## 1. Accessing Users and Teams {#Accessingusersandteams}

Follow these instructions to access users and teams:

- Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login). Click on **Users** or **Teams** either on the Account Settings or the Client Account menu, on the top right. You will be directed to the option you have chosen.

> *You must be the Account Owner or have the Edit Users permission to perform these settings.*

------

## 2. Adding users to an account {#addinguserstoanaccount}

You can add users before or after creating teams, as they are independent actions.

Take these steps to add a new user:

1. Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and select **Users**, as described in [Accessing Users and Teams](#Accessingusersandteams).
2. On the Users screen, click **Add user**. You will see three sections: *User profile*; *Contact information*; and *Security settings*. Fill in the fields as prompted.

> *Fields marked with an asterisk are required.*

#### User profile

**First name:** * new user first name.

**Last name:** * new user last name.

**Timezone:** * select the timezone where the new user is located. Choosing the correct timezone guarantees precision when accessing data and metrics on Real-Time Manager.

**Language:** English is the only language currently available on Real-Time Manager. 

#### Contact information

**E-mail:** new user e-mail address. The user will apply the provided e-mail address as a login credential.

**Mobile:** new user mobile number.

#### Security settings

**Account owner:** by enabling this function, the new user will be set as an Account owner, that is, he will be allowed access to all configurations, including the management of solutions and all accounts as well.

When this function is disabled, the user will be set as a Non-owner, with restricted access as per the permission settings defined in Teams.

**Teams:** Teams have different access permissions. Thus, you must select a team to allocate Non-owners, unlike Account owners, who have permission to access all teams.

If you have not yet created any team when adding a user, you can choose the Default Team from the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login).

> Non-owner access permissions depend on the permissions granted to the team they are allocated to.

Once it is a flexible platform, you can also allocate Non-owners to more than one team – which expands the permission possibilities for the same user. Refer to [Adding teams](#addingteams) and [Modifying team permissions](#Modifyingteampermissions) for more details.

**Multi-Factor Authentication:** this option enables/disables Multi-factor Authentication (MFA). MFA is a verification method that ensures better account security when it is  activated.

> *To ensure data security, we recommend keeping login access information confidential*.

#### Select boxes: Available Teams and Chosen Teams

1. To select the teams where the user will be allocated, click on the desired **team** in Available Teams and then on the **arrow** to move your selection to the Chosen Teams box.

   In order to speed up the process, you can select more than one team at the same time:

   - you can select all teams at once using the *Choose all* option, located below the Available Teams box;
   - you can also select in sequence by holding down the Shift key while clicking on the desired options; 
   - or alternately select by holding down the Ctrl or Cmd key while clicking on the desired teams. 

2. You can also undo your selection at any time. Click on the desired **team** in Chosen Teams and then on the **arrow** to move your selection back to the Available Teams box. 

   You can still deselect all teams at once by using the *Clear selection* option, located below the Chosen Teams box, and use the Shift, Ctrl or Cmd keys, as described above.

### Activating your Configurations

At the bottom of the screen, you will find the following options:

- **Cancel:** with this option, you return to the Users page, also discard any edits.  
- **Save:** once you finish your settings, click on the **Save** button.  

When you save your configurations, you return to the Users screen, where you will see the list of users sorted by contact details, team they belong to, MFA status and whether they are *Active* or not . 

> *New users will receive an automatic email to activate the account, which will be available for 14 days. If it is not activated within that period, they will be automatically removed from the Real-Time Manager.*

***

## 3. Changing users information {#changingusersinformation}

You can always change the users profile information and their settings as well. 

Follow these instructions: 

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and select  **Users**, as described in [Accessing Users and Teams](#Accessingusersandteams).
2. On the Users screen, select the desired user to access their profile and make the necessary changes.

### Activating your Configurations

At the bottom of the screen, you will find the following options:

- ​	**Active:** this button enables or disables a user on the system.

- ​	**Cancel:** with this option, you return to the Users page, also discard any edits.  
- ​	**Save:** once you finish your settings, click the **Save** button.   

When you save your configurations, you return to the Users screen, where you will see the list of users sorted by contact details, team they belong to, MFA status and whether they are Active or not . 

***

## 4. Changing your account information {#changingyouraccountinformation}

Follow these instructions to modify user profile or security settings, such as changing your password, for example.

1. Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and click on **Client Account**, on the top right menu.
2. Select the **User preferences** option from the dropdown menu.
3. You will see these sections: *User profile*, *Contact information*, *Security settings* - for password change - and *Multi-factor Authentication*, described in the section [Adding users to an account](#addinguserstoanaccount). 

- To change your password, you must fill in these fields: 

  **Old password:** enter your current password.

  **New password:** type your new password.

  **New password confirmation:** enter the new password to confirm.

{:start="4"}
1. Click **Save** to finish the process. By clicking on **Cancel** you return to the Real-time Manager home page and also discard any edits.

***

## 5. Deleting users {#deleting-users}

To delete users, follow these steps:

1. Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and select **Users**, as described in [Accessing Users and Teams](#Accessingusersandteams).

2. On the User screen, when hovering the mouse cursor over users, you'll see the trash can icon being enabled. Click on the trash can to delete the desired user.

3. When you click on the trash can, a message will appear asking you to confirm the deletion: 

   1. ​	*Do you want to delete user? Type "delete" in the input to confirm:*

   After typing "delete" in the input field, click the **Delete** button to confirm the deletion request. You will then return to the Users screen, where a confirmation message will be displayed. 

***

## 6 Adding teams {#addingteams}

You can create teams before or after adding users, as they are independent actions.

Take these steps to add a new team:

1. Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and select **Teams**, as described in [Accessing Users and Teams](#Accessingusersandteams).

2. On the Teams screen, click **Add team**. 

3. Type a name for the new team in the field Name for Team to be able to save your settings.

4. In the **Permissions** section, you will see the *Available Permission*s and *Chosen Permissions* selection boxes.

5. Click on the permission you want to grant to the team in **Available Permissions** and then on the **arrow** to move it to Chosen Permissions. The selection process is the same as for the selection boxes described in [Adding users to an account](#addinguserstoanaccount).

   By selecting permissions, you grant access to the functions set for that permission to users on that team only.

> *The permissions are independent of each other. For example, the Edit Users permission does not enable a team to view users. In that case, you must activate View Users as well.*

### Activating your Configurations

At the bottom of the screen, you will find the following options:

- ​	**Active:** this button enables or disables a team on the system.

- ​	**Cancel:** with this option, you return to the Teams page, also discard any edits.  
- ​	**Save:** once you finish your settings, click on the **Save** button.   

When you save your configurations, you return to the Teams screen, where you will see the list of teams, their permissions and whether they are Active or not . 

***

## 7. Modifying team permissions {#Modifyingteampermissions}

You can modify the team permissions in the Real-Time Manager whenever you like.

1. Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and select **Teams**, as described in [Accessing Users and Teams](#Accessingusersandteams).
2. On the Teams screen, select the desired team. 
3. Change permissions through the selection boxes. The selection process is the same as for the  selection boxes described in [Adding teams](#addingteams).

### Activating your Configurations

At the bottom of the screen, you will find the following options:

- ​	**Active:** this button enables or disables a team on the system.

- ​	**Cancel:** with this option, you return to the Teams page, also discard any edits.  
- ​	**Save:** once you finish your settings, click on the **Save** button.   

When you save your configurations, you return to the Teams screen, where you will see the list of teams, their permissions and whether they are Active or not . 

***

## 8. Deleting teams {#deleting-teams}

Before deleting teams, you must remove all users from the team. 

Follow these instructions:

1. Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://sso.azion.com/login) and select **Teams**, as described in [Accessing Users and Teams](#Accessingusersandteams).

2. On the Teams screen, when hovering the mouse cursor over teams, you'll see the trash can icon being enabled. Click on the trash can to delete a team.

3. When you click on the trash can, a message will appear asking you to confirm the deletion: 

   1. ​	*Do you want to delete Team Name? Type "delete" in the input to confirm:*

   After typing "delete" in the input field, click the **Delete** button to confirm the deletion request. You will then return to the Teams screen, where a confirmation message will be displayed. 

***

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
