---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: WAF Rule Sets
description: The WAF Rule Set protects your applications against threats such as SQL Injections, Remote File Inclusion (RFI), Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and more.
meta_tags: waf, rule set, edge computing
namespace: documentation_products_web_application_firewall_waf_rule_sets
permalink: /documentation/products/edge-firewall/waf-rule-sets/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/edge-firewall/waf-rule-sets/
---
# WAF Rule Sets



The **WAF Rule Set** protects your applications against threats such as SQL Injections, Remote File Inclusion (RFI), Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and more. WAF analyzes HTTP and HTTPS requests, detects and blocks malicious acts before they reach your infrastructure, without impacting the performance of your applications.

> 1. *[Creating a WAF Rule Set](#creating-WAF)*
> 3. *[Monitoring threat detection](#monitoring-threat-detection)*
> 4. *[Approving the desired whitelist](#approve-whitelist)*
> 5. *[Enabling threat blocking in the WAF Rule Set](#enable-threat-blocking)*

---

## 1. **Creating a WAF Rule Set for your applications** {#creating-WAF}

**WAF Rule Set** is the set of rules that protects against the most varied types of attacks. It defines the protections you want to activate, the detection sensitivity level and the *whitelist*.

#### To create a *WAF Rule Set*:

1.  Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) and go to the **Edge Libraries** > **WAF Rules** menu;
2.  Click the **Add WAF** button to add a new **Rule Set**;
3.  Give your **WAF** a suggestive name. You will need it to later join the **Rule Set** through **Rules Engine**;
4.  Select the **Mode** you want: **Counting** or **Blocking**;
5.  Activate the protections and select one of the five desired sensitivity levels in the **Main Settings** > **Threat Type Configuration** tab;
6.  Clich the **Save** button.

**Counting Mode** is used to specify that **WAF** should not block any request. It will analyze your traffic and will count threats. **Blocking Mode** is used to analyze and block detected threats, protecting your application from malicious users.

> We recommend that you activate the rule in **Counting Mode** at the first moment, to follow the sample of threats detected in the learning stage, before effectively blocking requests. That way you can also adjust the detection sensitivity, according to your application.

During **Counting Mode**, it is recommended that you leave all protections enabled so that you can monitor the threats detected by WAF.

If false positives are detected, some rules can be added to the *whitelist* by Azion Support, without the need to disable the full protection for a family of threats. Contact us if you wish to assess the need to include *whitelist* rules before disabling your protection.

Finally, the **Rule Set** must be active for WAF to analyze your requests. The **Active** checkbox allows you to enable and disable WAF quickly for all *paths* that are associated with the **Rule Set**.

---

## 2. **Monitoring threat detection** {#monitoring-threat-detection}

Leave the **WAF Rule Set** in **Counting Mode** for as long as you deem necessary so that most of your application's functionality is covered. 

> You should follow the graphics on the **WAF** tab through **Real-Time Metrics** > **Edge Applications** or the **WAF logs** through **Real-Time Events** and **Data Streaming** products. 

In **Real-Time Metrics**, the first graph on the *WAF* tab *(Threats vs Requests)* shows three time series:

*   **Regular Requests:** all HTTP and HTTPS requests are analyzed by WAF and are considered secure.
*   **Threats:** the volume of threats detected by WAF and accounted for, when in **Counting** mode. These threats are not being blocked at the moment.
*   **Threats Blocked:** threats effectively blocked by WAF. To start blocking the threats found, the rule set must be in **Blocking Mode**.

If you also have the **Data Streaming** service, you can track more detailed information about IP, date and time of access, status code, detected attack family and the configured mode of action.

~~~
$time-iso8601 $azion-client-id $azion-virtualhost-id $azion-configuration-id $azion-solution $azion-solution-id $host $conn-request-time $req-method $resp-status $req-uri $waf-threat-family $waf-threat-action $client-geoip-country-name $client-geoip-region-name $client-addr $client-port $req-header(User-Agent) $req-header(Referer) 2017-01-04T17:00:19+00:00 1234a 10203b 1020304050 ha 1441740010 www.yoursite.com 0.129 GET 200 /request-uri?key=value $XSS $LEARNING-BLOCK Brazil Sao Paulo 1.2.3.4 61511 Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/55.0.2883.87 Safari/537.36 https://www.yoursite.com/referrer 2017-01-04T17:00:19+00:00 1234a 10203b 1020304050 ha 1441740010 www.yoursite.com 0.025 POST 200 /request-uri $SQL $LEARNING-BLOCK Brazil Santa Catarina 2.3.4.5 61513 Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/55.0.2883.87 Safari/537.36 https://www.yoursite.com/referrer 2017-01-04T17:00:40+00:00 1234a 10203b 1020304050 ha 1441740010 www.yoursite.com 0.026 GET 301 /request-uri?key=value $RFI $LEARNING-BLOCK Brazil Rio de Janeiro 5.6.7.8 26102 Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 5.1.1; SM-G800H Build/LMY47X) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/55.0.2883.91 Mobile Safari/537.36 https://www.yoursite.com/referrer 2017-01-04T17:00:41+00:00 1234a 10203b 1020304050 ha 1441740010 www.yoursite.com 0.391 POST 200 /request-uri $UWA $LEARNING-BLOCK Brazil Rio Grande do Sul 9.10.11.12 26102 Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 5.1.1; SM-G800H Build/LMY47X) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/55.0.2883.91 Mobile Safari/537.36 https://www.yoursite.com/referrer
~~~

Based on this information, you can adjust the sensitivity of the *WAF Rule Set*, until no more false positives occur. You can also ask Azion to generate a *whitelist* for your application.

---

## 3. **Approving the desired *whitelist*** {#approve-whitelist}

Ask Azion Support to generate the *whitelist proposal*, based on the learning stage of your application.

The *whitelist* proposal generated by Azion will be inserted in the platform and will be available for your approval:

1.  Access the **Edge Libraries** > **WAF Rules**s* menu, or access the **WAF Rules** shortcut on the home screen;
2.  Edit the **WAF Rule Set** you want to use to evaluate the *whitelist*;
3.   Enable any rules you wish to approve In the **Whitelist** tab;
4.  Click on the  **Save** button to save your Rule Set.

---

## 4. **Activating threat blocking in the rule set** {#enable-threat-blocking}

After monitoring the behavior of your application and the threats detected after the learning period and approval of the *whitelist*, you must change the *Rule Set* to Blocking:

1.  Access the **Edge Libraries** > **WAF Rules**;
2.  Edit the desired **WAF Rule Set**;
3.  Change the mode from **Counting** to **Blocking**.

> From that moment on, your application will be protected and the detected threats will be effectively blocked.

~~~
Note: WAF only blocks threats if it is configured in Blocking Mode.
~~~

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
