---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Multi-Factor Authentication
description: Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is an electronic verification method used to secure logins.
meta_tags: Multi-Factor Authentication
namespace: "documentation_accounts_multi_factor"
permalink: "/documentation/products/accounts/multi-factor-authentication/"
permalink_pt-br: "/documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/multi-factor-authentication/"

---
# **Multi-Factor Authentication**

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/edit/master/accounts/multi-factor-authentication/index.md)

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is an electronic verification method used to secure logins. With MFA, the user must provide at least two pieces of identity evidence to be able to login into their account. In this case, it is a combination of a password and a third-party authenticator application on a mobile device.

> Before you enable this setting on Real-Time Manager (RTM), make sure your mobile device supports an MFA application, such as Google Authenticator or Microsoft Authenticator, by going into your app store (iOS' App Store or Android's Google Play, for example), searching and downloading it.

> 1. [Enabling MFA on Real-Time Manager](#enabling-mfa-on-rtm)
> 2. [Setting up an MFA mobile application](#setting-up-an-mfa-app)
> 3. [Logging to Real-Time Manager using MFA](#logging-to-rtm-using-mfa)
> 4. [Resetting Multi-Factor Authentication](#resetting-mfa)

***

## 1. Enabling MFA on Real-Time Manager {#enabling-mfa-on-rtm}

You can enable MFA when creating a new user, set it up to active users, or secure access to your account.

Enabling MFA to your account:

1. Access Real-Time Manager.
2. Click the account menu and select **User Preferences.**
3. Enable the MFA switch.
4. Click **Save** to finish the process.

Enabling MFA to existing users:

1. Access Real-Time Manager.
2. Click the account menu and select **Users.**
3. Select the desired user to access their profile.
4. Enable the MFA switch.
5. Click **Save** to finish the process.

***

## 2. Setting up an MFA mobile application {#setting-up-an-mfa-app}

To install an authenticator application on your mobile phone, consult your operational system's app store (such as iOS' App Store or Android's Google Play). You can use Google Authenticator or Microsoft Authenticator applications, for instance.

Once you have downloaded the application and logged in, follow these steps to connect Azion's account to your chosen authenticator application:

1. Look for the **+** button and click it.
2. Select the account type you are going to add. The camera will start.
3. Scan the QR code that appears when you login to RTM.
4. Type the six-digit code and click **Verify Code**.

Because of MFA, it is necessary to have access to your mobile phone to login into RTM providing the 6-digit code.

***

## 3. Logging to Real-Time Manager using MFA {#logging-to-rtm-using-mfa}

Read below to login to RTM with Multi-Factor Authentication activated.

1. On RTM's login page, insert your login credentials (e-mail and password) and click **Sign In**.
2. Start your authenticator application.
3. Type the six-digit code in the specified space on RTM and click **Verify**.

***

## 4. Resetting Multi-Factor Authentication {#resetting-mfa}

In case of loss or theft of your mobile phone, you will not be able to login to RTM unless an Account owner resets the MFA function.

To do so, you can ask for an Account owner user to deactivate your MFA function:

1. Access Real-Time Manager.
2. Click the account menu and select **Users**.
3. Select the desired user to access their profile.
4. Disable the MFA switch.
5. Click **Save** to finish the process.

If you are the only Account owner within the account, it is necessary to contact the [support](\[support@azion.com\](mailto:support@azion.com) ) team to have the MFA reset.

***

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Start a ticket with our support team.](https://tickets.azion.com/)