---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: How to use Azure Blob Storage to receive data from Data Streaming
description: Hands-on to use Azure Blob Storage to receive data from Azion Data Streaming.
meta_tags: data streaming, connector, endpoint, azure, blob
namespace: documentation_how_to_configurations_azure_blob
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/endpoint-azure-blob/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/azure-blob-endpoint/
---

# How to use Azure Blob Storage to receive data from Data Streaming

While configuring [data streamings]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}), you need to set up a specific endpoint to stream your Azion data.

Continue reading for a step by step on how to connect an [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs) endpoint to receive data from Data Streaming.

---

> 1. [Azure Blob Storage requirements](#requirements)
> 2. [Configuring the endpoint in Data Streaming](#configure-endpoint)

---

## 1. Azure Blob Storage requirements {#requirements}

To get started with Microsoft’s **Azure Blob Storage**, you must follow a few steps:

1. Create [a Microsoft Data Storage](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.StorageAccount) account.
2. Create [a container](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-container-create) for your Blob Storage.
3. Create [a SAS Token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview) to your Blob Storage with the permission to create, read, write, and list.

> For more information on how to create an Azure Storage Account, you can see the Azure Storage [documentation page](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/).

---

## 2. Configuring the endpoint in Data Streaming {#configure-endpoint}

Next, follow these steps to configure the new endpoint you created in **Azure Blob Storage** in your Azion **Data Streaming**.

You can find detailed steps for the entire configuration on the [How to use Data Streaming guide]({% tl documentation_using_dts %}).

In the **Destination** configurations:

1. On the **Endpoint Type** dropdown menu, select **Azure Blob Storage**.
2. On **Storage Account**, add the name of your storage account of your Azure Blob Storage. Example: `mystorageaccount`
3. On **Container Name**, add the name of your Azure Blob Storage container. Example: `log_container`
4. On **Blob SAS Token**, add the Blob SAS token of your Azure Blob Storage. Example: `fd56e23e1f12efe`
5. Make sure the **Active** switch is on.
6. Click the **Save** button.

After saving the configurations, your data will be streamed to the newly configured endpoint.

You can keep track of the calls made by Data Streaming to Azure Blob on [Real-Time Events]({% tl documentation_products_real_time_events %}). To do so, select **Data Source** > **Data Streaming** and choose the filters options as you wish.

---

## Related documentation

- [Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %})
- [How to use Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_using_dts %})

---

### Trademarks

[Microsoft Azure Blob](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/Trademarks/) is a registered trademark of Microsoft Inc in the United States and other countries.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
