---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Users Management
description: In this documentation, you'll find guidance on how to manage users on Real-Time Manager (RTM).
meta_tags: Users
namespace: documentation_accounts_users_management
permalink: "/documentation/products/accounts/users-and-teams/"
permalink_pt-br: "/documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/usuarios-e-times/"
---

# Users Management

In this documentation, you'll find guidance on how to manage users on **Real-Time Manager (RTM)**.

Learn how to add, delete, or change account information.

Before starting your settings, make sure you have the necessary permissions according to the following instructions.

> 1. [Accessing Users Management](#Accessingusersmanagement)
> 2. [Adding users to an account](#addinguserstoanaccount)
> 3. [Changing users information](#changingusersinformation)
> 4. [Deleting users](#deleting-users)

---

## 1. Accessing Users Management {#Accessingusersmanagement}

> You must be the Account Owner or have the Edit Users permission to perform these settings.

Follow these instructions to access Users Management:

1. Log in to [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-right corner of the page, select the avatar menu. This is the **Account menu**.
3. Click in **Users Management**.

---

## 2. Adding users to an account {#addinguserstoanaccount}

You can add users before or after creating teams, as they are independent actions. See how to add teams in the [Teams Permissions]({% tl documentation_accounts_teams_permissions %}) documentation.

Take these steps to add a new user:

1. Log in to [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) and select **Users Management**, as described in [Accessing Users Management](#Accessingusersmanagement).
2. On the Users Management screen, click **Add user**. You'll see three sections: *User profile*; *Contact information*; and *Security settings*. Fill in the fields as prompted.

> Fields marked with an asterisk are required.

### User profile

**First name**: new user first name.
**Last name**: new user last name.
**Timezone**: select the timezone where the new user is located. Choosing the correct timezone guarantees precision when accessing data and metrics on RTM.
**Language**: English is the only language currently available on RTM.

### Contact information

**Email**: new user email address. The user will apply the provided email address as a login credential.
**Mobile**: new user mobile number.

### Security settings

**Account owner**: by enabling this function, the new user will be set as an Account owner. They will be allowed access to all configurations, including the management of solutions and all accounts as well.

When this function is disabled, the user will be set as a Non-owner, with restricted access according to the permission settings defined in Teams.

**Teams**: teams have different access permissions. Thus, you must select a team to allocate Non-owners, unlike Account owners, who have permission to access all teams.

If you haven't yet created a team when adding a user, you can choose the Default Team [from RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).

> Non-owner access permissions depend on the permissions granted to the team they are allocated to.

You can also allocate Non-owners to more than one team, which expands the permission possibilities for the same user. See [Team Permissions]({% tl documentation_teams_permissions %}) for more details.

**Multi-Factor Authentication**: this option enables/disables Multi-factor Authentication (MFA). MFA is a verification method that ensures better account security when it's activated.

> To ensure data security, keep login access information confidential.

### Select boxes: Available Teams and Chosen Teams

1. To select the teams where the user will be allocated, click the desired **team** in **Available Teams** and then on the **arrow** to move your selection to the **Chosen Teams** box.

   In order to speed up the process, you can select more than one team at the same time:

   - You can select all teams at once using the *Choose all* option, located below the Available Teams box.
   - You can also select in sequence by holding down the Shift key while clicking on the desired options.
   - Or alternatively select by holding down the Ctrl or Cmd key while clicking on the desired teams.
2. You can also undo your selection at any time. Click the desired **team** in Chosen Teams and then the **arrow** to move your selection back to the Available Teams box.

You can still deselect all teams at once by using the *Clear selection* option, located below the Chosen Teams box, and use the Shift, Ctrl or Cmd keys, as described above.

### Activating your Configurations

At the bottom of the screen, you'll find the following options:

- **Cancel**: with this option, you return to the Users page, and you also discard any edits.
- **Save**: once you finish your settings, click the **Save** button.

When you save your configurations, you return to the Users Management screen, where you'll see the list of users sorted by contact details, the team they belong to, MFA status, and whether they are *Active* or not.

> New users will receive an automatic email to activate the account, which will be available for 14 days. If it's not activated within that period, they will be automatically removed from RTM.

---

## 3. Changing users information {#changingusersinformation}

You can always change the users profile information and their settings as well.

Follow these instructions:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) and select **Users Management**, as described in [Accessing Users Management](#Accessingusersmanagement).
2. On the **Users Management** screen, select the desired user to access their profile and make the necessary changes.

> Users can also modify their information on the [Your Settings](https://manager.azion.com/user) page. See more information on the [documentation page]({% tl documentation_accounts_your_settings %}).

### Activating your Configurations

At the bottom of the screen, you'll find the following options:

- **Active**: this button enables or disables a user on the system.
- **Cancel**: with this option, you return to the **Users Management** page, and you also discard any edits.
- **Save**: once you finish your settings, click the **Save** button.

When you save your configurations, you return to the **Users Management** screen, where you'll see the list of users sorted by contact details, the team they belong to, MFA status, and whether they are Active or not.

---

## 4. Deleting users {#deleting-users}

To delete users, follow these steps:

1. Log in to [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) and select **Users Management**, as described in [Accessing Users Management](#Accessingusersmanagement).
2. On the **Users Management** screen, when hovering the mouse cursor over users, you'll see the trash can icon being enabled. Click the trash can to delete the desired user.
3. When you click the trash can, a message will appear asking you to confirm the deletion. To confirm, type the required word in the text box.
4. After that, click the **Delete** button to confirm the deletion request. You'll then return to the **Users Management** screen, where a confirmation message will be displayed. 

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
