---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Edge Functions on Edge Firewall
description: By using Edge Functions in JavaScript on your Edge Firewall you can boost your protection, have more dynamism, and apply the logic that your business requires.
meta_tags: edge functions, edge computing
namespace: documentation_products_edge_functions_firewall
permalink: /documentation/products/edge-firewall/edge-functions/firewall/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/edge-firewall/edge-functions/firewall/
---

# Edge Functions on Edge Firewall

> 1. [Edge Functions in JavaScript](#edge-firewall-functions)
> 2. [How Edge Functions work with Edge Firewall](#how-they-work)
> 3. [Possibilities](#possibilities)
> 4. [Run Function](#run-function)

---

## Edge Functions in JavaScript {#edge-firewall-functions}

[Edge Functions]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions %}) are functions that run on the Azion Edge Computing Platform with low latency, bringing the operational power closer to the end user.

[Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall %}) supports edge functions. Through them you can write your own security source code in JavaScript and deploy it to run at the edge of the network.

With edge functions on Edge Firewall, you can:

- Boost your protection.
- Have more dynamism.
- Apply the logic that your business requires.
- Use APIs that provide **request** and **response** headers manipulation.

---

## How Edge Functions work with Edge Firewall {#how-they-work}

> **Note**: the edge functions in JavaScript on the Edge Firewall run in the request phase.

### Process

- The rules configured on the Edge Firewall *Rules Engine* for the function to run are triggered.
- Azion Cells processes the function, returning an outcome.
- Edge Firewall Rules Engine resumes the processing, based on the outcome, from the point the behavior was triggered.

---

## Run Function {#run-function}

Take a look at [How to create and configure an edge function on your Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_how_to_edge_functions_firewall %}) for more details on the process.

> **Note**: all edge functions used on Edge Firewall must have a *finishing outcome* in it, such as: `event.continue()`, `event.deny()`, and `event.drop()`.

---

## Possibilities {#possibilities}

### Add Request Header

You can add new headers to the request that is sent to the origin.

```javascript
  addEventListener("firewall", (event) => {
      event.addRequestHeader("X-Custom-Header-1", "1");
      event.addRequestHeader("X-Custom-Header-2", "2");
      event.continue();
  });
```

### Add Response Header

You can add new headers to the response that is sent to users.

```javascript
  addEventListener("firewall", (event) => {
      event.addResponseHeader("X-Custom-Header-3", "3");
      event.addResponseHeader("X-Custom-Header-4", "4");
      event.continue();
  });
```

### Deny (403 Forbidden)

Through the event `event.deny()`, you can finish a request returning HTTP 403 Forbidden.

```javascript 
  addEventListener("firewall", (event) => {
      event.deny();
  });
```

### Drop (Close Without Response)

Through the event `event.drop()` you are able to finish the request without returning an answer to the client.

```javascript 
  addEventListener("firewall", (event) => {
      event.drop();
  });
```

### Respond with

Through the event `event.respondWith()` you can intercept requests, return custom responses, and modify the response headers or content.

```javascript
    event.respondWith(new Response('{"my_custom_response": true}', {
        status: 599,
        headers: { "content-type": "application/json" }
    }));
```

### Metadata

The Edge Functions on Edge Firewall have a set of metadata available for manipulation.

By using this metadata you're able to filter and manage the access to your application and apply the specific logic in different scenarios, such as:

#### The GeoIP information

You can deny access to your application when the request comes from certain places.

Find out more about the [GeoIP metadata list]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_metadata %}#geo-ip).

#### Remote

You're able to check the IP address and the TCP port used.

Find out more about the [Remote metadata list]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_metadata %}#remote).

#### Server

You're able to check the protocol being used in the request.

Find out more about the [Server metadata list]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_metadata %}#server).

#### TLS

The TLS-related metadata is available when the request is made over a secure TLS connection.

Find out more about the [TLS metadata list]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_metadata %}#tls).

#### Azion Samples repository

Check [the Azion Samples repository](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-samples) on GitHub and analyze the code samples that can help you develop your own edge functions.

---

## Related documentation {#related-documentation}

- [Edge Functions Code Editor]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_code_editor %})
- [Edge Functions and ChatGPT]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_ai_integration %})
- [Azion Preview Deployment]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_runtime_preview_deployment %})
- [Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall %})
- [How to create and configure an edge function on your Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_how_to_edge_functions_firewall %})
- [Edge Firewall - Edge Functions Instances]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall_edge_functions_instances %})
- [Edge Functions]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions %})

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
