---
layout: page-documentation-md
title:   Accounts
description: The Real-Time Manager allows you to create separate accounts, called **Clients**, for each of the affiliates in your group of companies.
meta_tags: accounts, clients, groups
namespace:     documentation_accounts_clients
permalink:     /documentation/products/accounts/clients/ 
permalink_en:  /documentation/products/accounts/clients/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/clients/
---
# Clients 

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/edit/master/clients/2021-03-26-index.md)

The Real-Time Manager allows you to create separate accounts, called **Clients**, for each of the affiliates in your group of companies.

Thus, you can manage the group's accounts independently, with different Account owners, to streamline your day-to-day processes even further.

Below you will find guidelines on how to add *Client* accounts to your group of companies and how to manage your affiliates' users individually on the Real-Time Manager.

> 1. [*Creating your Client accounts*](#creatingyourcientaccounts)
> 2. [*Setting up Client accounts*](#SettingupClientaccounts)
> 3. [*Activating your configurations*](#Activatingyourconfigurations)



> *The Clients feature is only available for accounts of the Group type.*

------

## **1. Creating your Client accounts** {#creatingyourcientaccounts}

Log into the [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) as the Account owner and follow these steps:

1. In the **Groups** tab, select the company for which you want to create a Client type account;
2. On the Client Account menu, of the group type account, select the **Clients** option;
3. On the Clients screen, click the **Add client** button. Follow the instructions described in [Setting up Client accounts](#SettingupClientaccounts) to create and activate independent accounts for your affiliates.

> *To ensure data security, we recommend keeping login access information confidential*.

------

## **2. Setting up Client accounts** {#SettingupClientaccounts}

When you click the **Add client** button, three sections are displayed: *Main settings*; *Address information*; and *Account Owner*. 

Fill in the fields as requested.

> *Fields marked with an asterisk are required.*

#### **Main Settings**

**Account name:\*** name of the affiliated company; it is the *Client* type account.

**Company name:** corporate name.

**Unique identifier:** unique code that identifies the legal entity of that affiliate.

**Billing emails:** billing email addresses.

**Active Client:** this button enables/disables the operation of that client.

#### **Address Information**

**Country:** country where the affiliate is located.

**State/Region:** state / region where the affiliate is located.

**City:** city where the affiliate is located.

**Address:\*** address where the affiliate is located.

**Postal code:** postal code of the affiliate.

#### **Account Owner**

These fields refer to the *Client Owner*.

**First name:** * Account owner’s name for the affiliate.

**Last name:** * Account owner’s last name for the affiliate.

**E-mail:** * email address of the user who will be the Account owner of that account. The Account owner will use this email as login information.

After confirming the registration, through the **Save** button, the Account owner will receive an automatic email to activate the account, which will be available for 14 days.

If it is not activated within that period, the Account owner will be automatically removed from the Real-Time Manager.

------

## **3. Activating your Configurations** {#Activatingyourconfigurations}

At the bottom of the screen, you will find the following options:

- **Cancel:** with this option, you return to the Clients page, also discard any edits.
- **Save:** once you finish your settings, click the **Save** button. 

When you save your configuration, you return to the Clients screen, where you will see your list of Client accounts sorted by *Account Nam*e, *Company Nam*e, and status – *Active* or not . By clicking the arrows on these tabs, you can change how your list is displayed: either in alphabetical order or by status.

------

Didn’t find what you were looking for?[ Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
