---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Azion Marketplace Solutions' permissions
description: Permissions needed to install an Azion Marketplace solution.
meta_tags: permissions, help, edge computing
namespace: documentation_permissions_mktp
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/permissions-mktp/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/permissoes-mktp/
---

# Azion Marketplace Solutions' permissions

To install any solution from Azion **Marketplace**, you'll have to grant privileges for the **Marketplace** to read and write the configurations of your edge applications. Every solution has its own need for privileges; for example, to read and write the **Rules Engine** of your edge application in order to create a rule to trigger the execution of the solution.

---

## Common permissions

### Main Settings

The **Main Settings** tab on your edge application includes the main configurations needed to execute your solutions. When a solution asks for privileges to write and read the **Main Settings**, this means this solution needs to read and/or write one of the following configurations on your edge application:

- **Functions**
    - Must be enabled in order to execute any solution from **Marketplace**. To do so, it's mandatory to allow access if you want to run any solution installed via **Marketplace**. It's used to change the viewer request/response, customize arguments (**Args**) for your functions, and choose *criteria* to execute in the **Rules Engine**.
- **Application Acceleration**
    - This option will be mandatory if your solution needs to use advanced rules on **Rules Engines**, such as `Cache Key`, `Bypass Cache`, `Forward Cookies`, or `Proxy methods`.
- **Image Processor**
    - It helps to optimize the experience with images on your edge application.
- **Load Balancer**
    - A traffic balancer to assure you the best-on-class reliability and network congestion control.

> **Note**: some solutions on Azion **Marketplace** may require the L2 Caching module. Contact the [Azion Sales team](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales/) to activate this module for your account.

---

### Rules Engine

Every edge application relies on the **Rules Engine** in order to execute the *behavior* and *criteria* you need to run the application on the edge. For this, Azion **Marketplace** needs the privileges to read and write your rules on Rules Engine.

---

### Edge Firewall

Some solutions will run on the **Edge Firewall** instance. These solutions will need more privileges than granted to an edge application. To know the **Edge Firewall** access privileges, visit the guide [Access Permissions for Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall_access_permissions %}).

---

Didn’t find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
