---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: How to use Azure Monitor to receive data from Data Streaming
description: Hands-on to use Azure Monitor streaming to receive data from Azion Data Streaming.
meta_tags: data streaming, connector, endpoint, azure, monitor
namespace: documentation_how_to_configurations_azure_monitor
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/endpoint-azure-monitor/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/azure-monitor-endpoint/
---

# How to use Azure Monitor to receive data from Data Streaming

While configuring [data streamings]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}), you need to set up a specific endpoint to stream your Azion data.

Continue reading for a step by step on how to connect an [Azure Monitor](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) endpoint to receive data from Data Streaming.

---

> 1. [Azure Monitor requirements](#requirements)
> 2. [Configuring the endpoint in Data Streaming](#configure-endpoint)

---

## 1. Azure Monitor requirements {#requirements}

To get started with Microsoft’s **Azure Monitor**, you must follow a few steps:

1. Create [an Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) account.
2. Create an [Azure Analytic Log Workspace](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.OperationalInsights%2Fworkspaces) on Azure’s Platform. After the implantation is successfully completed, you’ll see a link to your workspace.
3. Click the workspace link to go to the overview page.
4. On the side panel, click on **Agents Management** and copy your **Workspace ID** and **Primary Key** to use later.
5. Go to the **Microsoft Sentinel** panel and create a [new Sentinel panel](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/microsoft.securityinsightsarg%2Fsentinel).
6. Add the recently created workspace to the Sentinel.
7. After setting up all configurations, go to the **Logs** section and access your **Table** and your **Consultations**.

---

## 2. Configuring the endpoint in Data Streaming {#configure-endpoint}

Next, follow these steps to configure the new endpoint you created in **Azure Monitor** in your Azion **Data Streaming**.

You can find detailed steps for the entire configuration on the [How to use Data Streaming guide]({% tl documentation_using_dts %}).

In the **Destination** configurations:

1. On the **Endpoint Type** dropdown menu, select **Azure Monitor**.
2. On **Log Type**, add the record type of the data that's being submitted, which is the table where Azure Monitor stores your logs. It can contain only *letters*, *numbers*, the *underscore (_) character*, and it can't exceed *100 characters*.
3. On **Shared Key**, add the Primary Key of your workspace.
4. On **Time Generation Field** (optional), add a data ingestion time, which informs how long it'll take for the log to be available after being collected.
5. On **Workspace ID**, add the ID of your workspace.
6. Make sure the **Active** switch is on.
7. Click the **Save** button.

After saving the configurations, your data will be streamed to the newly configured endpoint.

You can keep track of the calls made by Data Streaming to Azure Monitor on [Real-Time Events]({% tl documentation_products_real_time_events %}). To do so, select **Data Source** > **Data Streaming** and choose the filters options as you wish.

---

### Trademarks

[Microsoft Azure Monitor](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/Trademarks/) is a registered trademark of Microsoft Inc in the United States and other countries.

---

## Related documentation

- [Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %})
- [How to use Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_using_dts %})

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
