---
title: Azion Marketplace
description: Azion Marketplace is a digital catalog that makes it easy to find, test, and deploy edge-enabled software that runs anywhere. 
meta_tags: marketplace, edge computing
namespace: docs_marketplace
permalink: documentation/products/marketplace
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/marketplace
---
# Azion Marketplace

**Azion Marketplace** is a digital catalog that makes it easy to find, test, and deploy edge-enabled software that runs anywhere. With a wide range of solutions, you can use it to enhance, compose, or customize your applications. In addition, it provides a channel for Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), software developers, and open source communities to distribute edge-enabled software to an audience of thousands of active buyers.

Working as a digital catalog, Azion's Marketplace allows developers to implement a solution that meets their requirements, providing resources that can be used both within and outside of the [Azion Edge Network](https://www.azion.com/en/products/edge-network). 

At Azion's Marketplace, you find solutions to launch in your edge resources, such as [Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall %}) or [Edge Application]({% tl documentation_products_edge_applications %}), in Security, Performance, Database, and AI Solutions.

---

> 1. [First Steps](#first-steps)
> 2. [Getting a solution](#getting-solution)
> 3. [Using the solution](#using-solution)
> 4. [Instantiating an edge application](#instantianting-edge-application)\
> 4.1 [If you already have an edge application](#existing-edge-application)\
> 4.2 [If you don't have an edge application yet](#no-edge-application)
> 5. [Instantiating an edge firewall solution](#edge-firewall-solution)
> 6. [Updating a version of your solution on Marketplace](#versioning)
> 7. [Business models](#pricing-models)

---

## 1. First steps 

To access **Marketplace**, proceed as follows:

1. [Create an Azion account]({% tl documentation_creating_account %}).
2. Log in to [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
3. Access **Products menu** > **Marketplace**.

Now, you can navigate through all the solutions available or filter them.

---

## 2. Getting a solution 

To install any solution provided by Azion's Marketplace, follow these steps:

1. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Marketplace**.
2. On the Marketplace's homepage you have two ways to search for a solution: 
    1. In the search box, type the whole name of the solution, or just a chunk of text with a keyword or part of it. This will return any solution that matches with the text.
    2. Browse through the cards below it to find the desired solution.
3. Select the desired solution card to be redirected to the solution's page.
4. On the **Subscribe for** section, at the bottom-right corner of the page, click the **Get It Now** button.

> A successful message appears. Your solution is installed and ready to use.

---

## 3. Using a solution 

After installing a solution in the **Marketplace** directory, it'll be available for usage in your account.

Each solution has its purpose with specific features, and you'll find more information about it in the **Overview**, **Usage Information**, and **Support** tabs.

> **Note**: A solution may have dependencies and require more actions.

Current products require activation of the **Edge Functions** module. You must verify that it's enabled for your applications in **RTM** by selecting **Account menu** > **Billing & Subscriptions**.

---

## 4. Instantiating a solution to an edge application 

---

### 4.1 If you already have an edge application 

If you already have an edge application, you have two way to instantiate you solution. You can manually instantiate your solution for this edge application or you can use the User's Journey. 

#### Manually

For this, follow the steps:

1. On the upper-left corner, select **Products menu**.
2. Select **Edge Application**, under the **BUILD** section, to load the edge application list.
3. From the edge applications list, select the edge application you want to instantiate your newly installed solution.
4. Enable edge functions for your edge application by clicking the **Functions** switch.
5. Click the **Save** button.

---

#### Using the User's Journey

To use the user's journey, go to the **RTM** homepage and select the option to create an *edge application from scratch*. You can also access the documentation on [how to create an edge application from scratch]({% tl documentation_getting_started %}#build-edge-app).

---

### 4.2 If you don't have an edge application yet 

If you don't have an edge application yet, you have two ways to create one: manually and through the user journey on **RTM's** homepage.

See the steps for the two options below.

#### Manually

If you don't have an edge application yet, you can create one manually by following the steps:

1. On the **Products menu**, select **Edge Application** under the **BUILD** section.
2. Click the button **Add Edge Application**.
3. Give an easy to remember name to your edge application.
4. Select **Single Origin** at the **Origin Type** field.
5. Provide an address on the **Address** field.
6. Provide the `${host}`on the **Host Header** field.
7. Click the **Save** button.

To use your new solution, you'll have to instantiate it on your edge application.

To do so, follow the steps:

1. Select the newly created edge application from the list.
2. In the **Main Settings** tab, enable the switch **Functions** to enable functions on your edge application.
3. Click the **Save** button.

Still on the edge application page, follow the steps to instantiate an solution:

1. On the top list, select the **Functions** tab.
2. Click the **Add Function** button.
3. On the edge function's name text box, give an easy to remember name.
4. On the dropdown function menu, select the function you've installed from **Marketplace**.

This will load the function, showing a box with the code of the functions and two tabs: **Code** and **Args**. Here, every solution has a different configuration. To be able to install your solution, go to the [guides section on Azion's documentation]({% tl documentation_how_to %}) and select the solution you want to use.

> **Note**: some solutions will require more resources to run. For such cases, you can check [Azion's documentation guides]({% tl documentation_how_to %}) as well.

#### Through the user journey

To use the user journey: 

1. Go to **RTM's** homepage.
2. Select the **Build an edge application** card.
3. On the RTM homescreen, select the **Build From Scrath** option.
4. Provide an easy to remember name to your edge application.
5. Select the **Run a function** option.
6. On the **Configure function** option, select the function you installed from Marketplace on the dropdown menu.
7. A form with the source-code of the solution will appear. This tab called **Code** is just for study, you can't modify. At the same form, you have an **Args** tab. In that tab you'll pass your configurations parameters, according to the solution you've installed.

> You can read about the solutions' configurations on the [Azion guides section]({% tl documentation_how_to %}).

---

## 5. Instantiating an edge firewall solution 

The process to instantiate an edge firewall solution is similar to the process of an edge application. However, it has some differences in the configuration locations.

To instantiate an edge firewall solution, follow these steps:

1. Select **Products menu** > **Edge Firewall** in the **Secure** section.
2. You can select any of your **Edge Firewall** applications or create a new one.
    1. To create a new one, you have to click the **Add Rule Set** button.
    2. Give it an easy to remember name to your solution.
    3. Select the domains where the firewall will be active.
    4. Enable edge functions for your edge firewall by clicking the **Functions** switch.
    5. Click the **Save** button.
3. Go to the **Functions** tab and click **Add Function** to add the function you've installed. You'll be redirected to the edge firewall page.
5. Give an easy to remember name to your function.
6. Select the function you've added through **Marketplace** in the **Edge Functions** dropdown list. A code box with two tabs, **Code** and **Args**, will load. Every solution has a configuration: to find out how to configure your solution, go to [Azion's guides page]({% tl documentation_how_to %}).
7. Go to the **Rules Engine** tab and create the rule to define the *criteria* for when to run your function and set the *behavior* for *run function* passing the function you've installed through Marketplace.

Done. You're all set.

---

## 6. Updating a version of your solution on Marketplace 

The solutions presented within **Marketplace** aren’t static. Azion and Azion’s partners can update them when they launch new features. Thus, it's recommended that you always have the most updated solution, following the update schedule of Azion or ISVs.

To make sure that you're running the latest version of the solution acquired on Marketplace, follow the steps indicated below:

1. On **RTM**, on the upper-left corner, select **Products menu** > **Marketplace**.
2. Select the solution you want to update.
3. Click on the **Get new version** button to download the solution's latest version.

A message informing you the solution has been successfully updated will appear. Afterward, you can view all your solutions in your **Edge Functions** list.

**Important**: when you update a solution in Marketplace, it won't overwrite the solution's version you're currently running on your Edge Application. This occurs to give you control over the version you want to use with your application. For instance, you could test a new version of a solution with a different Edge Application. So, when the new version has passed through your validation process, on your Edge Application, you can select it to run. To do so, change the solution version on the functions dropdown menu of your Edge Application.

---

## 7. Business models 

Azion Marketplace operates with the following business models:

1. **Bring your own License (BYOL)**: bring the current ISV license or credentials and insert it in the Edge Function code component.
2. **Free model**: launch the solution on the go, subjected to terms of use.

> For other types of license, contact the [Azion Sales Team](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales/).

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
