---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Single Origin
description: pages.docs_single_origin.description
meta_tags: pages.docs_single_origin.meta_tags
namespace: documentation_products_content_delivery_single_origin
permalink: /documentation/products/edge-application/single-origin/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/edge-application/single-origin/
---
# Single **Origin**



Through **Single Origin** you may set up the address of your origin and adjust parameters.

> 1. [Single Origin Features](#single-origin-features)
> 2. [Single Origin Configuration](#single-origin-configuration)

---

## 1. Single Origin Features {#single-origin-features}

With **Single Origin** you add an origin for your content and customize **Host Header**, connection method and authentication credentials.

### Host Header

The Host header is used by your origin to identify the *virtualhost* and locate your content or application. When setting up an origin in Real-Time Manager, you can customize the value that must be sent by Azion in the Host header.

If this field is left blank, Azion will use, by default, the same address defined in the **Address** field. Leave the **Host Header** field blank if your origin is configured to respond to *virtualhost* by the same address that is set in DNS.

You can fill in a custom value for **Host Header** to be sent to your origin. For example, *www.azion.com*. You must customize the **Host Header** if your origin is configured to respond to a *virtualhost* at an address other than the one configured in DNS.

You can also use the variable `$host` in the **Host Header** field, to instruct the edge nodes to pass on to the origin the same Host header received from your visitors. Use this setting if you multiple *virtualhosts* being replied by the same origin.

### Origin Path  {#origin-path}

If you need Azion Edge Nodes to request the content of your origin in a path other than the URI, you may define an **Origin Path**. Azion will concatenate the Origin Path with the URI requested by the user.

The definition of the **Origin Path** is optional. If it is not defined, only the URI will be considered.

For example, if in your origin the whole content is under the **path** `/secure`, though this path is not shown in the URL for your users, you may define the `/secure` as the **Origin Path** in your origin settings. The rest of the path will be preserved, in accordance with the user’s request.

### Origin Protocol Policy {#origin-protocol-policy}

Azion’s delivery architecture allows you to customize the desired type of connection of the Edge Nodes to your origin:

| Connection Type              | Description                                                  |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Preserve HTTP/HTTPS protocol | It will keep the same connection protocol - *HTTP or HTTPS* - and ports used by your user when accessing your content on Azion to connect to your origin. |
| Enforce HTTP                 | The connection between Azion’s Edge Nodes and your origin will be through HTTP, regardless of the connection protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) and ports used by your user to access Azion’s content. With this new option, you may customize a port to your origin in the **Address** field different from the default port (80 for HTTP) if you wish. |
| Enforce HTTPS                | The connection between Azion’s Edge Nodes and your origin will be through HTTPS, regardless of the connection protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) and ports used by your user to access Azion’s content. With this new option, you may customize a port to your origin in the **Address** field different from the default port (443 for HTTPS) if you wish. |

### Address {#address}

After the definition of the fields above, add an origin informing the IP address or hostname FQDN –*Full Qualified Domain Name* - of your origin.

You may also customize the origin port, if you defined the *Origin Protocol Policy* in the *Enforce HTTP* or *Enforce HTTPS*, using the notation `host:port`.

### HMAC Authentication 

You may include a Single Origin where the origin is found in an Object Storage with private access, with authentication through HMAC.

When enabling *HMAC Authentication*, your private content will begin to be delivered to your users through Edge Application.You should include in the access credentials HMAC, Region, Access Key and Secret Key provided by your Object Storage provider. 

Secret Key is protected by being displayed only to its users with write permission and maintaining their access security.

### Timeouts 

Displays timeout setting in seconds pre-defined by Azion. Timeout values cannot be customized.

---

## 2. Single Origin Configuration {#single-origin-configuration}

To set up a Single Origin:

1.  Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) , click the **Products** menu on the top left corner, in **Edge Computing** select **Edge Applications**;
2.  Add or edit the desired **Edge Application** settings;
3.  In the tab **Origins**, add or edit an origin for your content;
4.  Select **Single Origin** in the field **Origin Type** and fill in the requested fields;
5.  Click the **Save** button to save your changes;
6.  Access the **Rules Engine** tab to edit or add rules for one of more **paths** through the **Behavior: Set Origin**.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
