---
title: Billing
description: Basic setups to understand Azion billing process and keep an account active.
meta_tags: billing, accounts, azion
namespace: documentation_accounts_billing
permalink: documentation/products/accounts/billing
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/faturamento
---

# Billing

You pay for Azion products through a usage-based pricing model, according to the products and your usage of each of them.

When you first sign up to use Azion's Edge Computing platform, you receive an amount in credit. After using the received credit, you have to pay as you go.

You can visit the [pricing](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing) page to check prices for Azion products and services and saving plans.

---

## Start for free

When you first sign up to use Azion's Edge Computing platform, you start for free. You get *U$300* in credit to use within *365 days*, which is called a *trial period*. Once the given amount of credit is used or the time period for use expires, you will be billed according to your usage.

During the sign up process, you're not obligated to insert your credit card information. You can feel free to make the best use of your credit within the time limit.

---

## Keeping your account after the trial period

To avoid interruption of your services after the trial period, follow the steps below:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. Select the **Account Menu** on the top right corner.
3. Select [Billing & Subscriptions](https://manager.azion.com/billing-subscriptions/bills).
4. Click the **Payment Methods** tab.
5. Click **Add payment method**.
6. Enter valid credit card information according to the required fields.
7. Click the **Save** button.

Every month you will receive an email containing your usage levels and charges to your account during that period. The email contains a PDF file with the *invoice* detailing charges, period, and invoice ID.

You can change the billing contact information in the **Account Settings** section of the **Account Menu** on **RTM**.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
