---
title: Azion CLI edge applications command and its subcommands
description: Learn about the edge applications command and its subcommands.
meta_tags: cli, subcommands, edge applications cli
namespace: documentation_cli_edge_applications
menu_namespace: cli-doc-menu
og_image: ''
meta_tag_robots_no_index: false
permalink: documentation/products/cli/edge-applications
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/cli/edge-applications

---

# Edge applications command and its subcommands

See the command and subcommands that enable the creation and management of your edge applications on the Azion Platform using the Azion **Command-Line Interface (CLI)**.

> 1. [Initializing](#initializing)
> 2. [Building](#building)
> 3. [Publishing](#publishing)
> 4. [Describing](#describing)
> 5. [Deleting](#deleting)
> 6. [Listing](#listing)
> 7. [Related documentation](#related-documentation)

---

## Initializing 

The initialization process creates the necessary environment for building your edge application. To do this, you must first:

- Choose one of the three templates available in the CLI:
  - Next.js
  - Flareact
  - Javascript
- Initialize a **JavaScript** project with **Node.js** runtime environment.

### Usage

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications init
```

### Flags

#### Name

The `--name` option can be specified, but it isn't mandatory. If it isn't informed, the name of your project will be the same one that is in your `package.json` file.

#### Type

The `--type` option can be specified, but it isn't mandatory. If it isn't informed, the type of your project will be autodetected.

The CLI currently provides three templates and the type `cdn` for building edge applications that follow `--type`:

- JavaScript

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type javascript
```

- Flareact

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type flareact
```

- Next.js

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type nextjs
```

- CDN

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type cdn
```

> **Note**: if there's no `package.json` configuration file in your edge application directory, the CLI will return the following error message:

```bash
    Error: Failed to find package.json in current directory. Verify if you are currently in your project's directory
```

In that case, create a `package.json` configuration file for your project in the same directory as your edge application. Then rerun the command in order to initialize the application.

> **Tip**: the best solution for creating a `package.json` file is to start a Node.js project in your edge application directory. To do so, use the command below from the Node.js runtime environment:
>
> `npm init -y`

Command response in terminal:

```bash
    Wrote to /Users/<user_name>/web-app-proj/package.json:

    {
    "name": "web-app-proj",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "",
    "main": "index.js",
    "scripts": {
        "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
    },
    "keywords": [],
    "author": "",
    "license": "ISC"
    }
```

#### No

The `--no` option forces a `no` response to all user inputs.

#### Yes

The `--yes` option forces a 'yes' response to all user inputs.

---

## 2. Building 

The second step in creating an edge application is to build it based on the attributes provided in the `init` command. The command used to build the application is the `build` command.

### Usage

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications build
```

### Flags

#### Help

The only flag available for the `build` command is `--help`, which displays a brief help screen.

**Note**: a requirement for using the `build` command is the presence of the [webPack](https://webpack.js.org/) framework installed on your computer.

---

## 3. Publishing 

The final step in creating an edge application is publishing it on the Azion platform. The `publish` command performs this task automatically.

### Usage

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications publish
```

### Flags

#### Help

The only flag available for the `publish` command is `--help`, which displays a brief help screen.

**Note**: publishing an edge application via **RTM** or CLI isn't an instantaneous process. There's a time to propagate and configure the application in Azion's edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.

---

## 4. Deleting 

The `delete` command is used when you want to delete an edge application.

### Usage

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications delete --application-id 1234
```

### Flags 

#### Application id
The `--application-id` is the unique identifier of your edge application.

#### Help
The `--help` option displays more information about the `describe` command.

---

## 5. Describing 

The `describe` command displays information about a specific edge application which matches the given ID, showing the application's attributes in detail.

### Usage

```bash
    $ azioncli edge_applications describe --application-id 4312
    $ azioncli edge_applications describe --application-id 1337 --out "./tmp/test.json" --format json
    $ azioncli edge_applications describe --application-id 1337 --format json
```

### Flags

#### Application ID

The `--application-id` option is the unique identifier of your edge application.

#### Format

The `--format` option changes the output format passing the JSON value to the flag.

#### Help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `describe` command.

#### Out

The `--out` option exports the output to the given `<file_path/file_name.ext>`.

---

## 6. Listing 

The `list` command is used when you want to list your edge applications.

### Usage

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications list
```

### Flags

#### Details

The `--details` option displays all relevant fields of your edge application.

#### Filter

The `--filter` option filters the applications by their names.

#### Help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `describe` command.

#### Order by

The `--order_by` option sorts the output based on the selected field.

#### Page

The `--page` option returns a page of the list according to its number (default 1).

#### Page size

The `--page_size` option defines how many items should be returned per page (default 10).

#### Sort

The `--sort` option defines the order of the items on the list. The options are `<asc|desc>`.

---

## 7. Related documentation 

- [Creating an edge application with Azion CLI]({% tl documentation_how_to_cli_edge_application %})
- [Edge Functions Command]({% tl documentation_cli_edge_functions %})
- [Managing your Edge Functions using Azion CLI]({% tl documentation_how_to_cli_edge_functions %})

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
