---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: How to use Data Streaming
description: Find out how to use and configure a data streaming on Azion.
meta_tags: data streaming, how to, use, stream, event, logs, observe, observability
namespace: documentation_using_dts
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/use-data-streaming/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/como-usar-data-streaming/
---

# How to use Data Streaming

**Data Streaming** is an **Observe** product that allows you to feed your SIEM, big data, and stream processing platforms with the event logs from your applications on Azion in real time. You can find more detailed information about the product and its first steps on the [reference documentation]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}).

Continue reading this guide to find out how to use and configure a data streaming on Azion.

---

Before being able to access the Data Streaming product, you need to have an Azion account to use with **Real-Time Manager (RTM)**. Create one through the [sign-up page](https://manager.azion.com/signup/) or see the [documentation page]({% tl documentation_creating_account %}) for more information.

After creating your Azion account, you can access Data Streaming:

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, on the **Products Menu**, select **Data Streaming** on the **OBSERVE** section.
3. Click **Add Streaming**.

---

Next, fill in the fields to configure your data streaming. Fields marked with an asterisk `*` are mandatory.

1. Choose a name for your data streaming: try to use a meaningful name to help you remember for what purpose you've created this data streaming.
2. On the **Data Source** dropdown menu, select the one you want to use: **Activity History**, **Edge Applications**, **Edge Functions**, or **WAF Events**. For Edge Functions and WAF Events, you must be [subscribed to the products]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}#first-steps).
3. On the **Template** dropdown menu, select the one you want to use: a pre-set template according to your [data source choice]({% tl documentation_data_streaming %}#selecting-data-source) or a **Custom Template**.
    - If you choose **Custom Template**, add the variables you want to use in your logs' analysis in the **Data Set** code box. See more on [How to create a custom template on Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_dts_custom_template %}).
4. On **Options**, select between **Filter Domains** or **All Domains**. See more about each option on [How to associate domains on Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_dts_associate_domains %}).
5. On the **Destination** section, select an **Endpoint Type** on the dropdown menu: **Standard HTTP/HTTPS POST**, **Apache Kafka**, **Simples Storage Service (S3)**, **Google BigQuery**, **Elasticsearch**, **Splunk**, **AWS Kinesis Data Firehose**, **Datadog**, **IBM QRadar**, **Azure Monitor**, or **Azure Blob Storage**.
    - You'll see different fields depending on the endpoint type you choose. Find more information on each of them on the [Setting an endpoint page]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}#setting-endpoint).

Finally, to finish your Data Streaming setup:

1. Make sure the **Active** switch is turned on.
2. Click the **Save** button.

You've successfully created a data streaming on RTM.

To make sure your logs are being sent to your endpoint through the configured data streaming, you can use [Real-Time Events]({% tl documentation_products_real_time_events %}) to query detailed analysis.

To see all your created data streamings, go to the Data Streaming page on RTM and select one from the list. Feel free to create multiple ones.

Watch a video tutorial on how to use Data Streaming on Azion's YouTube channel:

<iframe
   src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xgagaCN1IPQ"
   loading="lazy"
   width="600"
   height="400"
   title="How to Use Data Streaming"
   frameborder="0"
   allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
   allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Related documentation {#related-documentation}

- [How to associate domains on Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_dts_associate_domains %})
- [How to create a custom template on Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_dts_custom_template %})

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
