---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: How to use Real-Time Metrics
description: Find out how to use Real-Time Metrics and view your charts on Azion.
meta_tags: real time, edge computing, observe, observability, metrics, data, events, security
namespace: docs_use_real_time_metrics
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/use-real-time-metrics/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/usar-real-time-metrics/
menu_namespace: 
og_image: 
---

# How to use Real-Time Metrics

**Real-Time Metrics** is an [Observe]({% tl documentation_observe_home %}) product that provides you with real-time access to metrics, through charts, so you can analyze the events of your applications and products configured on Azion. You can find more detailed information about the product and its first steps on the [reference documentation]({% tl documentation_products_real_time_analytics %}).

Note that the new Real-Time Metrics provides data and metrics starting from **October 15th, 2022**. If you want to view metrics for up to 2 years and before October 15th, 2022, see [Historical Real-Time Metrics]({% tl docs_products_historical_real_time_metrics %}).

Continue reading this guide to find out how to use and configure Real-Time Metrics on Azion.

> 1. [Accessing Real-Time Metrics](#access-real-time-metrics)
> 2. [Configuring products and a data interval](#configure-products-data-interval)
> 3. [Viewing your charts and metrics](#view-charts-metrics)

---

## 1. Accessing Real-Time Metrics {#access-real-time-metrics}

Before being able to access the Real-Time Metrics product, you need to have an Azion account to use with **Real-Time Manager (RTM)**. Create one through the [sign-up page](https://manager.azion.com/signup/) or see the [documentation page]({% tl documentation_creating_account %}) for more information.

After creating your Azion account, you can access Real-Time Metrics:

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, on the **Products menu**, represented by three horizontal lines, select **Real-Time Metrics NEW** on the **OBSERVE** section.

The Real-Time Metrics page opens on the Edge Application tab by default.

---

## 2. Configuring products and a data interval {#configure-products-data-interval}

To analyze your metrics, you first need to select a product and configure a data interval:

1. Select one of the three available categories on the dropdown menu:
    - Build
    - Secure
    - Observe

{:start="2"}

2. After selecting a category, select a tab according to the product you want to view:

-  Build
    - Edge Application
    - L2 Caching
    - Edge Functions
    - Image Processor

- Secure
    - WAF
    - Intelligent DNS

- Observe
    - Data Streaming

{:start="3"}

3. On **Time range**, select a time period from the options to fetch the data that'll be exhibited on the charts:
    - Last Hour
    - Last 24 Hours
    - Last 7 Days
    - Last 30 Days
    - Last 6 Months
    - Manually set beginning and ending dates

{:start="4"}

4. If you want to use a different date from the options, click the calendar fields and select a beginning and ending date and time.

{:start="5"}

5. If you've selected the **Edge Applications** product tab, select between one of the four subtabs:
    - Data Transferred
    - Requests
    - Status Codes
    - Bandwidth Saving

After you configure a data interval, all charts from all tabs will be automatically refreshed with the metrics from the chosen time period.

---

## 3. Viewing your charts and metrics {#view-charts-metrics}

Once you've selected a tab and configured a data interval:

1. Navigate through the page to see all available graphs.
2. Hover over the points of the graphs to view the amount of data and the specific time range.
3. Click the **Get help** tag if you need more information on what the graph is describing and tips on how to analyze them.
