---
title: Application Acceleration
description: Application Acceleration speeds up web applications and APIs through protocol optimizations and manages dynamic content requirements.
meta_tags: Application Acceleration, Serveless, Edge Computing
namespace: documentation_products_application_acceleration
permalink: documentation/products/edge-application/application-acceleration
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/edge-application/application-acceleration
---
# Application Acceleration

**Application Acceleration** is an **Edge Application** module that speeds up web applications and APIs through protocol optimizations and manages dynamic content requirements. You can configure advanced caching rules by path that enable granular caching, content segmentation, and cache policies based on cookies and query strings. This module also includes features such as **Bypass Cache**, **Forward Cookies**, and **support for HTTP methods**.

> 1. [How it works](#how-it-works)
> 2. [Advanced Cache Key](#advanced-cache-key)\
> 2.1. [Cache by Query String options](#cache-by-query-string)\
> 2.2. [Cache by Cookie options](#cache-by-cookie)
> 3. [Bypass Cache](#bypass-cache)\
> 3.1. [Difference between Bypass Cache and TTL 0](#bypass-cache-and-ttl-zero)
> 4. [Forward Cookies](#forward-cookies)\
> 4.1. [JavaScript Cookies](#javascript-cookies)
> 5. [Support for HTTP methods](#http-support)

---

## 1. How it works 

You can use Azion **Edge Application** to deliver dynamic or static content. The dynamic part of a website can be cached for a user profile, being grouped according to the specific needs of your application, such as city, browsing profile, or shopping profile.

By default, Azion considers each URL as a different object in cache. The **Application Acceleration** module allows your dynamic content to be cached on Azion's edge nodes.

## 2. Advanced Cache Key 

By enabling **Application Acceleration**, you can create custom cache key rules based on Query String or Cookies to define the segmentation of the content in your application.

**To activate this feature, follow these steps**:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Select an application or [create a new one]({% tl documentation_getting_started %}#build-edge-app).
4. To enable the **Application Acceleration** module, in the **Main Settings** tab, select the option **Application Acceleration** under the **Modules** section.
5. After enabling the module, click on the **Cache Settings** tab.
6. Add a custom cache setting or edit one from your list.
7. In the **Advanced Cache Key** section, define your custom **Cache by Query String** and **Cache by Cookie** settings.
8. In the **Rules Engine** tab, add or edit a rule from your list in **Request Phase** to define the behavior for one or more paths.
9. In the **Set Cache Policy** behavior, select the custom cache configuration.

### 2.1. Cache by Query String options 

At Azion, you define how you want the content to be cached according to **Query String** variations in your URLs:

- **Content does not vary by Query String (Improves Caching)**: defines that the cache key must ignore the Query String. That is, two URLs that are different just by the variation of the Query String will be considered as the same cached object. For example, `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryA` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryB` will deliver the same cache content to your users.

- **Content varies by some Query String fields (Whitelist)**: you can list which Query String fields should be considered to differentiate between objects in the Azion cache. All other fields will be ignored. For example, if you list the `city` field, the URLs `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&name=X` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&name=Y` will be considered as a single object in cache, while URLs `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&name=X` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=B&name=X` will be considered as different objects.

- **Content varies by Query String, except for some fields (Blocklist)**: you can list which fields in the Query String should be ignored when differentiating cached objects. All other fields will be considered. For example, if you list the `random` field, the URLs `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&random=123` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=B&random=123` will be considered different object in cache, while `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&random=123` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&random=456` will be considered as the same object in cache.

- **Content varies by all Query String fields**: defines that the cache key must consider all fields of the Query String. That is, two URLs distinct by the variation of the Query String will be considered as two distinct objects in the cache. For example, `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryA` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryB` will be stored as separate objects in the Azion cache.

> **Tip**: to increase caching efficiency, you can enable the **Query String Sort** feature. If activated, it orders all the fields of the query string, making the position of the fields irrelevant in the definition of the cache key. If the position of the fields is relevant to differentiate your content, you should leave the functionality disabled.

### 2.2. Cache by Cookie options 

You can also distinguish objects in the Azion cache by name/value of cookies.

- **Content does not vary by Cookies (Improves Caching)**: differentiates objects in Azion's cache through URL; doesn't take cookies into account.

- **Content varies by some Cookies (Allowed Rules)**: you can list the name of the cookies that your application uses to differentiate cached objects. All other cookies will be ignored, allowing you to segment your content by user profiles and other settings. This is the most recommended option if you use cookies to manage user sessions.

- **Content varies by Cookies, with the exception of a few (Blocklist)**: you can list the name of the cookies you want to ignore in the cache key setting, considering all cookies except those listed.

- **Content varies by all Cookies**: in addition to the URL, it considers all cookies to differentiate objects in Azion's cache.

> **Tip**: use this feature to segment your content by user profile, browsing session, access region, or according to your content targeting needs.

---

## 3. Bypass Cache 

You can also use Azion to deliver your dynamic and personalized content, even when some of your content can't be cached in Azion's infrastructure. At Azion, you define cache rules per path. Create a **Bypass Cache** rule for the paths of your website that can't be cached in our infrastructure.

To use the functionality, follow these steps:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Select the desired **Edge Application** from the list.
4. In the **Rules Engine** tab, add or edit a rule from your list in **Request Phase** to define the behavior for one or more paths.
5. Select the **Bypass Cache** behavior.

By using Bypass Cache, you'll configure Azion's service to forward all requests to a path directly to their origin. However, you'll count on important protocol optimizations to speed up your application and a keepalive connection between Azion edge nodes and their origin whenever possible.

### 3.1. Difference between Bypass Cache and TTL 0 

There is a difference in behavior between Bypass Cache and cache with time-to-live (TTL) set to 0 (zero) seconds. By using Bypass Cache, all HTTP and HTTPS requests received by Azion edge nodes will be sent to their origin, without any content caching. Select the Bypass Cache if you want to deliver different content for each user request.

For TTL set to 0 (zero) seconds, multiple requests in parallel to Azion edge nodes will be sent as a single request to their origin through Azion's Edge.

> **Tip**: set TTL to zero if the content can be delivered identically to all users who order simultaneously, but the content varies from time to time.

In addition, when using TTL zero, Azion edge nodes will validate changes to the content with its origin by using the *If-Modified-Since* parameter. If the object hasn't changed since the last request, the content won't need to be transferred again, which could result in a much faster *304 Not Modified* response.

This difference is important for you to be able to obtain maximum optimization in your content delivery and load reduction at its origin.

---

## 4. Forward Cookies 

If your origin manages application cookies, you may need the **Forward Cookies** functionality.

By default, Azion filters the Response Header Set-Cookie sent by its origin. If you wish, you can configure Azion so that the Set-Cookie is passed on to your users.

To use the functionality, follow these steps:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Select the desired **Edge Application** from the list.
4. In the **Rules Engine** tab, add or edit a rule from your list in **Request Phase** to define the behavior for one or more paths.
5. Select the **Forward Cookies** behavior.

By using the Forward Cookies functionality, you're determining that Azion forwards to users the Set-Cookie header received from your origin, even in a cache content situation (cache hit). To prevent a user from receiving another user's Set-Cookie session, you must list all session cookies (private cookies) for your application in the **Cache Settings** tab of your **Edge Application** configuration, under the **Advanced Cache Key** section, in **Cache by Cookie**.

### 4.1. JavaScript Cookies 

An alternative to sending the Response Header Set-Cookie is to create cookies using JavaScript, which allows you to create, read, and expire cookies through the `document.cookie` property. [Find out more about JavaScript Cookies](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_cookies.asp).

To create a JavaScript cookie, you must enter `name=value` and, optionally, `expires` and `path`:

```javascript
document.cookie = “username=John Doe; expires=Thu, 18 Dec 2020 12:00:00 UTC; path=/”;
```

By default, Azion won't filter the Request Header Cookie regardless of its Forward Cookies configuration and therefore JavaScript Cookies may be sent to the origin to enable the management of your application.

---

## 5. Support for HTTP methods 

You can use Azion to accelerate your web applications and APIs. Through the Application Acceleration, you extend the Edge Application functionalities to support the POST, PUT, PATCH and DELETE methods, in addition to GET, HEAD and OPTIONS, which are already natively supported.

**To use the functionality for the desired paths, follow these steps:**

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Select the desired **Edge Application** from the list.
4. In the **Main Settings** tab, activate the **Application Acceleration** module.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
