---
title: Social Login
description: 'An option of single sign-on that uses existing information from a social network to log in to third-party sites'
meta_tags: social login, contas, autenticação de usuários 
namespace: documentation_accounts_social_login
permalink: documentation/products/accounts/social-login
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/social-login
---
# Social Login

**Social Login** is an option of single sign-on that uses existing information from a social network to log in to third-party sites without the need to create a new login account for that particular site. It links accounts from one or more social networking services to a site, simplifying end users' logins and providing increasingly reliable information.

**Social Login** provides a number of advantages, such as:

* Pre-validated email.
* Agility in the access process.
* Ease of use for mobile devices.
* Simple and faster user registration process by eliminating the manual sign-up process.

In addition, it helps prevent users from providing false data or forgetting their login information.

To find out more about signing up to Azion with **Social Login**, visit the [creating an account page]({% tl documentation_creating_account %}).

---

## Enabling and disabling Social Login

As an *Account Owner*, you can enable and disable the **Social Login** functionality. When it's enabled, users linked to the account can authenticate to [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) using the supported social networks. When it's disabled, users have to authenticate to **Real-Time Manager (RTM)** using their email and password.

To enable the use of Social Login for all users linked to an account, make sure you are an *Account Owner* and proceed as follows:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. Click the **Account menu** on the top right corner.
3. Select **Account Settings**.
4. Under **Authentication Settings**, enable the **Social login** switch.

   > When you enable this item, Social Login will be enabled for all users of the account.

5. Click the **Save** button to finish the process.

Once Social Login is enabled, users will be able to access [**Real-Time Manager**](https://manager.azion.com/) via Social Login on their next login.

   > Currently, Azion supports Social Login with GitHub and Google accounts.

To disable this setting, follow the steps above again, disable the **Social login** switch, and click the **Save** button.

---

Didn’t find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
