---
title: Edge Caching
description: Edge Caching speeds up content delivery by keeping your content cached at the edge and bringing your application closer to your users.
meta_tags: caching, edge, edge caching, edge computing, performance
namespace: documentation_products_edge_caching
permalink: documentation/products/edge-application/edge-caching
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/edge-application/edge-caching
---
# Edge Caching

**Edge Caching** is an **Edge Application** module that reduces latency and enables a high transfer rate for your applications through Azion's global network of edge nodes.

> 1. [How it works](#how-it-works)
> 2. [Cache Settings](#cache-settings)
> 3. [Browser Cache Settings](#browser-cache-settings)
> 4. [CDN Cache Settings](#cdn-cache-settings)
> 5. [L2 Caching](#l2-caching)
> 6. [Slice Settings](#slice-settings)
> 7. [HTTP method cache](#http)
> 8. [Stale Cache](#stale-cache)
> 9. [Advanced Cache Key](#advanced-cache-key)\
> 9.1. [Cache by Query String options](#cache-by-query-string)\
> 9.2. [Cache by Cookie options](#cache-by-cookie)\
> 9.3. [Adaptive Delivery](#adaptive-delivery)

---

## 1. How it works 

**Edge Caching** is a standard module available for all Edge Applications on Azion, ensuring performance and low latency. It's comprised of a reverse proxy architecture, through which your users connect to the edge nodes of our highly distributed global network. Edge Caching can *cache* your content and further extend its versatility with the **L2 Caching** add-on.

When a user requests content on the internet, their browser or application initiates the DNS resolution process in order to translate the requested domain into an IP address. When using Azion, you point your web application's DNS to an address generated when creating a Domain on Azion.

Azion selects the Edge Node closest to the user by using its **Software-Defined Networking (SDN) Router**, reducing latency and increasing the speed of content transfer.

---

## 2. Cache Settings 

This service is responsible for creating cache configurations, containing several features that expand the way content is delivered.

**Cache Settings** works with two versions:

1. The first version focuses on static content. Thus, you don't need to have the **Application Acceleration** service enabled.
2. The second version, which employs Application Acceleration, extends numerous configuration options in the Cache Settings interface.

**To create or edit a Cache Setting, proceed as follows**:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. Select the **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Click the **Add Application** button to create a new Edge Application, or select an existing one from the list.
4. Select the **Cache Settings** tab.
5. Edit or create a Cache Setting.
6. Click the **Save** button to save the setting.

---

## 3. Browser Cache Settings 

The Browser Cache Settings configures the amount of time that content is cached in the web browser. You can set the **Edge Application** to:

| Honor Origin Cache Headers                    | Override Cache Settings                       | No cache              |
| --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| This feature honors the cache definitions sent by your origin servers through HTTP headers (*Cache-Control and Expires*), sending the same headers to the web browser. | This feature overrides the cache of your origin server by setting the time-to-live (TTL) manually. | This feature sends the browser a `no-cache` instruction, indicating that the response must be validated with the origin servers before every use. |

---

## 4. CDN Cache Settings 

**CDN Cache Settings** is the amount of time Azion’s Edge Applications take to *cache* the content. You can set the **Edge Application** to:

| Honor Origin Cache Headers                                   | Override Cache Settings                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| This feature honors the cache definitions sent by your origin servers through HTTP headers (*Cache-Control and Expires*), sending the same headers to the web browser. | This feature overrides the cache of your origin server by setting the TTL manually. |

---

## 5. L2 Caching 

> This functionality will only be available if the service has been activated. To activate **L2 Caching**, [contact our Sales team](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales/).

**L2 Caching** is an additional layer of caching between Azion's edge and its origin that helps to further reduce the load on your infrastructure.

When accessing your applications on Azion, your user accesses our highly distributed network capable of edge caching. By enabling L2 Caching in your edge applications, you have a second cache layer that will be responsible for feeding the edge, keeping your content cached for as long as you wish.

When using L2 Caching as an additional caching layer, you must include a configuration per region. For example: `sa-brazil` for Brazil, `na-united-states` for USA, etc., depending on the region.

L2 Caching was specially designed for objects that can remain in cache for a long period of time. Thus, you can only activate it on cache policies with a TTL equal to or greater than *3 seconds*, with the default TTL equal to *60 seconds*.

Whenever necessary, you can use **Real-Time Purge** to expire your L2 Caching content before the expected TTL time. Remember to purge first in L2 and only later in **Edge Caching**. This avoids edge feedback with outdated L2 content.

> **Warning**: the **Honor Origin** setting isn't available for CDN Cache. You need to set a TTL to overwrite the CDN cache.

**To use the L2 Caching module, proceed as follows:**

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select the **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Select the **Edge Application** in which you want to use the module.
4. Select the **Main Settings** tab, if it isn't already selected.
5. At the end of the **Edge Application Modules** section, enable the **L2 Caching** switch.
6. Select the **Cache Settings** tab.
7. To manage the L2 Caching layer settings, click the **Add Cache Settings** button to create a new cache settings, or select one of the existing ones from the **Cache Settings List** to edit it.
8. Set the **Default TTL (seconds)** field to a value greater than or equal to *3 seconds*.
9. Enable the **L2 Caching** button.
10. Click the **Save** button to save your configuration.

---

## 6. Slice Settings 

**Slice** is a feature for Edge Applications that processes large amounts of data more effectively, reducing latency and saving bandwidth.

When enabling this functionality, files could be fragmented. Such fragments are gradually delivered to the end user according to data consumption, avoiding an abrupt data transfer that could be interrupted by the user. The Slice functionality caches data on demand at the moment the user requests it, initiating the cache operation.

> **Note**: when activating the Slice functionality, the current *cache key* will be ignored and a new one will be created.

This feature works with a default *slice-range* of *1024kB*. If you want to modify the *slice-range*, [contact our Sales team](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales/).

> **Tip**: initially, the Slice functionality works with the **Edge Caching** layer, but it's not restricted to it. In the **Slice Settings** section, it's also possible to activate the slicing on the [L2 Caching layer](#l2-caching) by ticking the **L2** checkbox, provided that L2 Caching is already activated.

**To enable the Slice Settings feature, follow these steps:**

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Edge Application**. The **Edge Applications** page appears with a list containing existing applications.
3. In the table, select an **Edge Application** or [create a new application]({% tl documentation_getting_started %}#settings-app).
4. Select the **Cache Settings** tab. The **Cache Settings List** section shows a table containing the cache settings.
5. Select the **Cache Setting** you want to enable **Slice Settings**.
6. In the **Slice Settings** section, enable the **Slice Configuration** switch. By default, the **Edge Caching** setting will be automatically selected.
7. If you have the L2 Caching module, check the **L2 Caching** checkbox to enable this option.

> **Note**: if you don't have the module, the **L2 Caching** checkbox won't be visible in the **Slice Settings** section. To enable L2 Caching, [contact our Sales team](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales).

---

## 7. Caching HTTP Methods 

By default, Azion only caches GET and HEAD requests. To enable the OPTIONS method, you must activate the **Cache Options** button within your **Edge Application** settings in **RTM**.

The HTTP cache stores a response linked to a request and reuses it for subsequent requests.

You can enable the **Enable caching for POST** switch, allowing Azion to cache POST requests; the **Enable caching for OPTIONS** key allows Azion to cache OPTIONS requests. These two cache options imply using the request body as part of the cache key.

> To enable the **Cache OPTIONS** or the **Cache POST** feature, you must activate the [Application Acceleration]({% tl documentation_products_application_acceleration %}) product.

---

## 8. Stale Cache 

When your application's cache passes its expiration date, it becomes *stale* (obsolete) and the server searches the source for the most up-to-date version. This new version, with an updated expiration date, overwrites the old one (*stale*).

However, the server may encounter problems and be unable to get the most up-to-date version of your application from the origin. In such cases, it delivers the latest version of it, even though it has expired. This behavior is known as **Stale Cache**.

Stale Cache is a standard configuration of the **Edge Caching** module. However, if your **Edge Application** needs, you can turn it off.

> **Warning**: it's important to remember that when disabling Stale Cache, if the server is unable to update the cache from the origin, it'll return an error to the user, interrupting the session.

---

## 9. Advanced Cache Key 

You can use Azion to deliver your dynamic or static content. Even the dynamic part of a website can often be cached for a user profile, grouped according to the specific needs of your application, such as city, browsing profile, or shopping profile.

By default, Azion considers each URL as a different object in cache. The **Advanced Cache Key** module allows your dynamic content to be cached on Azion's **Edge Node**. By enabling this setting, you can create custom cache key rules based on [Query String](#cache-by-query-string) or [Cookies](#cache-by-cookie) to define the segmentation of the content in your application.

**To activate this feature, follow these steps:**

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Products menu** > **Edge Application**.
3. Select an application or [create a new one]({% tl documentation_getting_started %}#build-edge-app).
4. To enable the **Application Acceleration** module, in the **Main Settings** tab, select the option **Application Acceleration** under the **Modules** section.
5. After enabling the module, click on the **Cache Settings** tab.
6. Add a custom cache setting or edit one from your list.
7. In the **Advanced Cache Key** section, define your custom **Cache by Query String** and **Cache by Cookie** settings.
8. In the **Rules Engine** tab, add or edit a rule from your list in **Request Phase** to define the behavior for one or more paths.
9. In the **Set Cache Policy** behavior, select the custom cache configuration.

### 9.1. Cache by Query String options 

At Azion, you define how you want the content to be cached according to **Query String** variations in your URLs:

- **Content does not vary by Query String (Improves Caching)**: defines that the cache key must ignore the Query String. That is, two URLs that are different just by the variation of the Query String will be considered as the same cached object. For example, `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryA` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryB` will deliver the same cache content to your users.

- **Content varies by some Query String fields (Whitelist)**: you can list which Query String fields should be considered to differentiate between objects in the Azion cache. All other fields will be ignored. For example, if you list the `city` field, the URLs `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&name=X` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&name=Y` will be considered as a single object in cache, while URLs `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&name=X` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=B&name=X` will be considered as different objects.

- **Content varies by Query String, except for some fields (Blocklist)**: you can list which fields in the Query String should be ignored when differentiating cached objects. All other fields will be considered. For example, if you list the `random` field, the URLs `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&random=123` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=B&random=123` will be considered different object in cache, while `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&random=123` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?city=A&random=456` will be considered as the same object in cache.

- **Content varies by all Query String fields**: defines that the cache key must consider all fields of the Query String. That is, two URLs distinct by the variation of the Query String will be considered as two distinct objects in the cache. For example, `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryA` and `http://yourdomain.com/path?queryB` will be stored as separate objects in the Azion cache.

> **Tip**: to increase caching efficiency, you can enable the **Query String Sort** feature. If activated, it orders all the fields of the query string, making the position of the fields irrelevant in the definition of the cache key. If the position of the fields is relevant to differentiate your content, you should leave the functionality disabled.

**Note**: by default, Azion will only cache GET and HEAD requests. By checking the **Enable caching for POST** option, you allow Azion to also cache POST requests. POST request caching entails using the request body as part of the cache key.

### 9.2. Cache by Cookie options 

You can also distinguish objects in the Azion cache by name/value of cookies.

**Content doesn't vary by Cookies (Improves Caching)**: doesn't take cookies into account. That is, it considers only the URL to differentiate objects in Azion's cache.

**Content varies by some Cookies (Allowed Rules)**: you can list the name of the cookies that your application uses to differentiate cached objects. All other cookies will be ignored, allowing you to segment your content by user profiles and other settings. This is the most recommended option if you use cookies to manage user sessions.

**Content varies by Cookies, with the exception of a few (Blocklist)**: you can list the name of the cookies you want to ignore in the cache key setting, considering all cookies except those listed.

**Content varies by all Cookies**: in addition to the URL, it considers all cookies to differentiate objects in Azion's cache.

> **Tip**: use this feature to segment your content by user profile, browsing session, access region, or according to your content targeting needs.

### 9.3. Adaptive Delivery 

The **Adaptive Delivery** feature detects the user's device group and allows you to configure how **Azion Content Delivery** should store your content. This functionality requires the **Edge Application** product.

- **Content does not vary by Device Groups (Improves Caching)**: choose this option to deliver the same version of the content, regardless of device detection.

- **Content varies by some Device Groups (Allowed rules)**: choose this option so that Azion keeps device-based variations of its objects in the cache.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
