---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: How to create and configure an edge function on your Edge Firewall
description: Edge functions are functions that run on the edge of the network, close to users. They can help you secure your applications through Edge Firewall.
meta_tags: firewall
namespace: documentation_how_to_edge_functions_firewall
menu_namespace: 
og_image: ''
meta_tag_robots_no_index: false
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/edge-functions/firewall/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/edge-functions/firewall/
---

# How to create and configure an edge function on your Edge Firewall

**Edge Functions** are functions that run on the edge of the network, close to users. They can help you secure your applications through Edge Firewall.

To use functions in your Edge Firewall, you have to go through two steps:

- Create an edge function with the *Initiator Type* set as Edge Firewall.
- Configure the behaviors on the Edge Firewall page.

---

> 1. [Creating an edge function](#creating-edge-function)
> 2. [Configuring the behaviors on the Edge Firewall page](#configuring-edge-firewall-function)
> 2.1. [Creating a rules set](#creating-rules-set)
> 2.2. [Adding an edge function to the firewall](#adding-func-firewall)

---

## 1. Creating an edge function {#creating-edge-function}

1. On [Real-Time Manager RTM](https://manager.azion.com/), on the upper-left corner, select **Edge Functions** in the **Edge Libraries** section.
2. Click on **Add a Function**.
3. Choose a name for your function.
4. Write your Edge Function code, or simply paste it.
    > **Note**: the edge function being used on the firewall must contain a *finishing event*, such as:

    ```javascript 
    addEventListener("firewall", (event) => {
        event.deny();
    });
    ```

{:start="5"}

5. Once you've placed the source code inside the code block, set the `Initiator Type` to `Edge Firewall`.
6. Save it.

Now, your edge function can be used on an edge firewall configuration.


---

## 2. Configuring your edge function on the Edge Firewall {#configuring-edge-firewall-function}

After creating an edge function with the `Initiator type` set as Edge Firewall, you need to configure the edge firewall to use it.

### 2.1 Creating a Rules Set {#creating-rules-set}

1. On [Real-Time Manager RTM](https://manager.azion.com/), on the upper-left corner, select **Edge Firewall** in the **Secure** section.
2. Click on **Add a Rule Set**.
3. Choose a name for the Rules Set.
4. Choose the domains you want to apply the rules to.
5. Enable the use of the **Edge Functions** module.
6. Activate the edge firewall and save it.


After saving the configuration, on the same page, the tabs **Functions** and **Rules Engine** become available.

### 2.2 Adding an edge function to the firewall {#adding-func-firewall}

1. Go to the **Functions** tab.
2. Choose an **Instance Name**.
3. Select **Add Function**.
4. Choose a function.
5. Click the **Save** button.
    > **Note**: only functions with the *Initiator Type* set as Edge Firewall are listed.

{:start="6"}

6. Go to the **Rules Engine** tab.
7. Select **New Rule**.
8. Write a name for the new rule.
9. Configure the criteria that will be applied.
10. Set the behavior to **Run Function** and select the function you want to run.
11. Click the **Save** button.

> **Note**: it might take a while for your changes to propagate.

---

## Related documentation {#related-documentation}

- [Edge Firewall - Edge Functions Instances]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall_edge_functions_instances %})
- [Edge Functions]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions %})
- [Edge Functions on Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions_firewall %})
- [Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall %})

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
