---
title: Features GraphQL API
description: GraphQL features consist of datasets, filtering, sorting, and pagination.
  The features provide easy access to your data, and using and combining the available
  features creates more personalized and specific queries to request the exact information
  you need.
meta_tags: graphql, api, azion, query, features
namespace: documentation_graphql_features
permalink: documentation/products/graphql-api-features
permalink_pt-br: documentacao/produtos/graphql-api-recursos
menu_namespace: graphql-doc-menu
og_image: ''
meta_tag_robots_no_index: false
---
# Features GraphQL API

**GraphQL** features consist of **datasets**, **filtering**, **sorting**, and **pagination**. The features provide easy access to your data, and using and combining the available features creates more personalized and specific queries to request the exact information you need.

The next sections will detail each available feature of GraphQL and how to use them.

> 1. [Datasets](#queries-datasets)
> 2. [Filtering](#queries-filtering)
> 3. [Sorting](#queries-sorting)
> 4. [Pagination](#queries-pagination)

---

## 1. Datasets 

Azion **GraphQL API** uses defined datasets to indicate what requests you can run through queries and fetches data from **Real-Time Metrics** and **Real-Time Events**. They consist of organized tables informing your data.

Find each available dataset and what they request next:

| Dataset   | Description |
|----------|-----------|
| httpMetrics | Request events registered by [Edge Application]({% tl documentation_products_edge_applications %}) and [Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall %}).     |
| l2CacheMetrics | Request events registered by [L2 Caching](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-caching#l2-caching).    |
| edgeFunctionsMetrics | Events executed by [Edge Functions]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions %}).     |
| imagesProcessedMetrics |  Image processing events by [Image Processor]({% tl documentation_products_image_optimization %}).    |
| idnsQueriesMetrics | Query events performed on [Intelligent DNS]({% tl documentation_products_intelligent_dns %}).     |
| dataStreamedMetrics | Sent events of data by [Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}) to the clients' endpoint.    |
| httpEvents | Request events registered by [Edge Application]({% tl documentation_products_edge_applications %}) and [Edge Firewall]({% tl documentation_products_edge_firewall %}).     |
| l2CacheEvents | Request events registered by [L2 Caching]({% tl documentation_products_edge_caching %}#l2-caching).    |
| edgeFunctionsEvents | Events executed by [Edge Functions]({% tl documentation_products_edge_functions %}).     |
| imagesProcessedEvents |  Image processing events by [Image Processor]({% tl documentation_products_image_optimization %}).    |
| idnsQueriesEvents | Query events performed on [Intelligent DNS]({% tl documentation_products_intelligent_dns %}).     |
| dataStreamedEvents | Sent events of data by [Data Streaming]({% tl documentation_products_data_streaming %}) to the clients' endpoint.    |

> To see which fields are available for each dataset, you can run an Introspection Query to consult metadata. Find out more on the [Consulting metadata with GraphQL API]({% tl documentation_how_to_configurations_graphql_metadata %}) guide.

> Find out more on [Consulting Top X Queries with GraphQL API]({% tl documentation_how_to_configurations_graphql_topx %}).

While using datasets, it's important to note you can request both *raw* and *aggregated* data models. By running a request for *raw* information, using the Events datasets, you receive as a response the *raw numbers* related to that specific dataset. By running a request for *aggregated* information, using the Metrics datasets, you receive your information in the form of *graphs* related to that specific dataset.

To specify you want to aggregate data with a time interval, add the *aggregate* operator in your query along with the `group_by` field. For example, the following query aggregates data:

```graphql
query IdnsQuery {
  idnsQueriesMetrics(
    limit: 10
    aggregate: {sum:requests}
    groupBy: [ts]
    filter: {
      tsRange: {begin:"2022-10-20T10:10:10", end:"2022-10-23T10:10:10"}
    }
  ) 
  {	
    ts
    sum
  }
}
```

> Find out more on how to aggregate data with the [Consulting aggregated data with the GraphQL API]({% tl documentation_how_to_configurations_graphql_aggregated_data %}) guide.

It's important to note that with the *aggregated model* you'll receive data according to a time range defined through an *adaptive resolver*. Currently, there are three possible intervals to fetch your results: *minute*, *hour*, and *day*.

Each query interval is used according to the following definitions:

- **Minute**: used for queries in the interval of **up to 3 days**.
- **Hour**: used for queries in the interval of **3 and 60 days**.
- **Day**: used for queries in the interval of **over 60 days**.

To successfully receive data as a response, you must inform a time interval either through a `tsRange` or a `tsGt + tsLt` field in your queries with a valid date and time format. If you use `tsRange`, you'll receive data greater than or equal to or less than or equal to that specific interval, including the beginning and ending date you've informed.

Use the following example as a basis to apply a `tsRange` in your request:

```
tsRange: {begin:"2022-06-23T09:10:10", end:"2022-06-23T16:10:10"}
```

If you use `tsGt + tsLt`, you'll receive data greater than or less than that specific interval, **not** including the beginning and ending date you've informed.

Use the following example as a basis to apply a `tsGt + tsLt` in your request:

```
{

  "tsGt": "2022-07-22T10:10:10",

  "tsLt": "2022-09-19T10:10:10"

}
```

Defining and informing a time range interval in your queries is important to fetch data from the available datasets of the GraphQL API and continue running requests with the other available features.

---

## 2. Filtering 

With filtering parameters, responses returned by your queries can be more accurate to your set of data. You can use filtering with any available field in the dataset you're consulting.

As requesting complex or a large amount of data can cause responses to get noisy and complicate its use, filtering queries helps with getting exact and direct data from your requests. For example, if you're using the following query to request `httpMetrics`:

```graphql
query HttpQuery {
  httpMetrics(
    limit: 10
    filter: {
      tsRange: {begin:"2022-10-20T10:10:10", end:"2022-10-23T10:10:10"}
    }
  ) 
  {	
    ts
    sourceLocPop
  }
}
```

You can filter the query by requesting data specific to the `sourceLocPop` field:

```graphql
query HttpQuery {
  httpMetrics(
    limit: 10
    filter: {
      tsRange: {begin:"2022-10-20T10:10:10", end:"2022-10-23T10:10:10"}
      sourceLocPop: "lax-bso"
    }
  ) 
  {	
    ts
    sourceLocPop
  }
}
```

You can feel free to update your request to use a field of your interest within the fields of the dataset you're consulting.

---

## 3. Sorting 

The sorting feature lets you organize and sort the received data of a dataset according to the event's order. For example, if you're receiving the `host` field data as a response to your API request, you can sort the data to receive it in an *ascending order (ASC)*, from oldest record to most recent record.

To use the ascending order sorting feature, add `orderBy` in your query and the field you want to sort. For example:

```graphql
{
    orderBy: [host]
}
```

If you want to sort the data according to the timestamp of a field, you can order it in *ascending order (ASC)* or *descending order (DESC)*. Although ASC is the default sort for all fields in the dataset, you can only use DESC order with the *timestamp (TS)* field. For example:

```graphql
{
    orderBy: [TS_DESC]
}
```

---

## 4. Pagination 

**Pagination** is a feature designed to help you decide where you want your results to begin from and how many results you want to see. Currently, Azion **GraphQL API** uses *offset and limit pagination* to provide the feature.

Using pagination can be useful when you get a large number of data in response to your API request. You can use the feature by setting **offsets** and **limits**. This way, the API knows it needs to return data within the specific range you've set.

The **offsets** parameter sets the number of records you want to skip in your data response, and the **limits** parameter sets the number of results you want to receive.

> Setting offset and limit parameters isn't mandatory. In case you don't set the parameters, GraphQL API automatically sets the **offset** for **0** and the **limit** for **10**.

See the following example on how to set offset and limit parameters:

```graphql
query HttpQuery {
  httpMetrics(
    offset: 15
    limit: 30
    filter: {
      tsRange: {begin:"2022-10-20T10:10:10", end:"2022-10-23T10:10:10"}
    }
  ) 
  {	
    ts
    sourceLocPop
  }
}
```

The offset is set for 15, meaning your response will start with the 16th result, and the limit is set for 30, meaning your response will give you a total of 30 results. In this case, you'll receive a response from the 16th result until the 45th result.

> If your data is constantly updated, using pagination may cause missing or duplicate data when you run more than one request using the feature.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/).
