---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: How to configure mTLS
description: Learn how to configure mTLS in your application at Azion.
meta_tags: mutual transport layer security, mtls, tls handshake, open banking, certificates, digital certificates
namespace: documentation_products_guides_mtls
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/mtls/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/guias/mtls/

---

# How to configure mTLS on your Edge Application Domains

**Mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS)** is an encryption protocol based on *Transport Layer Security (TLS)*, which validates the digital certificate on both ends of a request.

To configure mTLS in your applications, you need to activate the service through our [Sales Channel](https://www.azion.com/en/contact-sales/) in addition to having a digital certificate with mTLS support, provided by a third-party certificate authority. At Azion, we call this certificate **Trusted Certificate (Trusted CA)**.

More information about requirements, digital certificates, Trusted CA, and how mTLS works at Azion is available on the [Support for mTLS page]({% tl documentation_products_edge_application_domains_mtls %}).

> 1. [Adding a Trusted CA to your Digital Certificates library](#trusted-ca)
> 2. [Choose the domains](#domains)
> 3. [Add specific rules for using Permissive mTLS](#permissive-mtls)
> 4. [Specifying mTLS variables in the application header](#mtls-headers)
> 5. [Related content](#related-content)

## 1. Add a Trusted CA to your Digital Certificates library {#trusted-ca}

With your **Trusted CA** created, you need to add it to your library of *Digital Certificates*, under **Edge Libraries**:

1. Go to the [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com) and click on the **Products Menu**, indicated by the ☰ icon. Search for the **Edge Libraries** category and click on **Digital Certificates**.
2. Click the *Add certificate* button and select the *Trusted CA Certificate* option from the *dropdown* menu.
4. On the new certificate registration page, set an identifying name for this certificate in the *"Digital Certificate Name"* field.
5. Enter in *Certificate* the content that represents your **Trusted CA**.
    > Remember that the certificate file must be of `.pem` format – Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM). Example: `certificate.pem`.
6. Click the *Save* button to proceed.

You'll be redirected to the **Digital Certificates** page, where all your certificates are listed, including this newly added one.

## 2. Choose the domains {#domains}

After adding a **Trusted CA** to your certificate library, you need to configure which domains should operate with mTLS.

1. Go to the **Domains** page, found in the **Products Menu (☰)**.
2. Click on the domain you would like to configure **mTLS** for.
4. Enable the *Enable Mutual Authentication (mTLS)* switch.
5. Choose which verification mode you wish to use. It can be `Enforce` and `Permissive`.
6. Select the **Trusted CA Certificate**, added in the previous step, from the *dropdown* menu.
7. Click the *Save* button to proceed.

By selecting `Enforce` verification (default), mTLS is enabled in your **Edge Application** and all incoming traffic will comply with client and server authentication. 

However, if you're looking to test or access your application from specific conditions, choose the `Permissive` mode. The `Permissive` mode is set up through the **Rules Engine** of the **Edge Firewall** and the steps are described in the section below.

> It is important to remember that misconfiguring the `Permissive` verification mode can result in security incidents.

## 3. Adding specific rules for using Permissive mTLS {#permissive-mtls}

To configure the operation of `Permissive` mode: 

1. Go to the **Products Menu (☰)**.
2. In the SECURE category, click **Edge Firewall**.
3. If there's no Firewall configured, click *Add Rule Set* and set an identification name for the new rules.
4. Under *Domain Settings*, select your application domain and click the `>` button to send the chosen domain to *Chosen Domains*.
5. Click *Save*.
6. With the *Rule Set* created, click the **Rules Engine** tab of the **Edge Firewall**.
7. Click the *New Rule* button.
8. Choose an identifying name for this rule in *Rule Name*.
9. Define the *Criteria* and *Behaviors* specific to your need.
    > For this example, the logic will be: `Criteria: If: Hostname is equal to {yourDomain.com} + And Client Certificate Validation is not equal to true. Behaviors: Then Deny (403 Forbidden)`.
10. Make sure that the *Active switch* is activated.
11. Click the *Save* button.

Without mTLS support enabled in your Azion account, the Criteria option *Client Certificate Validation* will not appear.

> In this example logic, the *Rule Set* created will block (Error 403 Forbidden) any incoming network traffic with a *hostname* equal to {yourDomain.com} whose client certificate validation is not true.

## 4. Specifying mTLS variables in the application header {#mtls-headers}

If your application is part of the Open Banking model, you will need to specify the variables `${ssl_client_escaped_cert}` and `${ssl_client_s_dn_parsed}` in the *header* of your application. You can also insert other mTLS variables. [Check the list of available variables and their descriptions]({% tl documentation_products_edge_applications_rules_engine %}).

To add a variable to your application header, follow the steps:

1. Within the **RTM**, open the **Products Menu (☰)**.
2. Click on **Edge Application**.
3. Find and click on the application with mTLS enabled.
4. Within the settings of your **Edge Application**, click the *Rules Engine* tab.
5. Click the *New Rule* button and select *Request Phase*.
6. Set an identifier name for this *Rule*.
7. In the *Criteria* field, change the operator `is equal` to `exists`.
8. In the *Behaviors* field, select the *Add Request Header* option and add the variable you wish to insert in your application's header.
    > **Tip:** The use of the prefix `X-` in the `header-name` of custom HTTP variables is discouraged by the HTTP development organization, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), since 2012 ([RFC 6648](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6648/)). The IETF recommends using a simple `header-name`, which indicates the actual use of the variable, but which does not conflict with standard variables.
9. Make sure the **Active** switch is on.
10. To add another variable, click the `+` button and return to step 7.
11. Click the **Save** button.

One way to test these header variables is with the [curl](https://curl.se/) tool. From a directory containing your **Trusted CA** and its key in a `.pem` file (for example, `cert.pem` and `key.pem`), open the terminal and run `curl -skv https://<yourDomain.com>/ -H "pragma:azion-debug-cache" -o /dev/stdout --cert cert.pem --key key.pem`. You should find `header-name:value` from the added variables on the terminal response.

---

## 5. Related documentation

- [Edge Application]({% tl documentation_products_edge_applications %})
- [Domains]({% tl documentation_products_edge_application_domains %})
- [Support for mTLS]({% tl documentation_products_edge_application_domains_mtls %})
- [mTLS Variables]({% tl documentation_products_edge_applications_rules_engine %}#mtls)

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a ticket](https://tickets.azion.com/en/support/login/new).
